Contents
1
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
By Richard Dakan


Clanbook: Ventrue
2
Credits
Written by: Richard Dakan
Developed by: Justin Achilli
Mind’s Eye Theatre Systems by: Deird’re Brooks
Editor: Carl Bowen
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Brian Glass
Interior Art: Steve Ellis, Leif Jones, Vince Locke, 
Christopher Shy and Andy Trabbold
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Brian Glass
© 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher 
is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced 
for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, 
Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, World of 
Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of White 
Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the 
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dream-
ing, Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage 
the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Guide 
to the Camarilla, Guide to the Sabbat, Vampire Storytellers 
Handbook and Clanbook Ventrue are trademarks of White 
Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, 
names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White 
Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or prod-
uct in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or 
copyright concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters 
and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fic-
tion and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader 
discretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
 Contents
Introduction: To Fail and Succeed	
4
Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred	
10
Chapter Two: The King Is Dead, Long Live the King	
32
Chapter Three: Of August Blood	
78


Clanbook: Ventrue
4


To Fail and Succeed
5
To Fail and  
Succeed
Casper Johnson pressed the elevator call button for the 
fourth time in nine seconds. He knew rationally that it didn’t 
make a damn bit of difference, but he was in a hurry. The eleva-
tors at the Hyatt Plaza knew he wanted one of them, and they 
would send their representative in due time. Just like politicians, 
elevators worked on their own schedules and made you wait for 
them. Unlike politicians, elevators didn’t yell at you when you 
kept them waiting. Not that Mr. Van Dorn would yell at him. 
He’d just stare, which was actually much, much worse. At least it 
was worse when Van Dorn did it.
Casper wasn’t the only person waiting anxiously for the 
elevator. The Hyatt was a madhouse tonight, just as you’d expect 
for the biggest party fundraiser of the year. The mayor was due 
to arrive any minute, while three state senators, six states’ 
representatives and a would-be national senator were all down-
stairs boozing it up with lobbyists from every big bank, industry 
and special-interest group in the state. He knew all about that, 
because, as a lobbyist himself, that was exactly where he’d been 
too until a few minutes ago when he’d had to cut Representa-
tive Friedman off in mid-anecdote by glancing at his watch. 
9:02. He was two minutes late. He had 13 minutes to round up 
Councilman Mackie and get him up to suite 1225. 
Now at 9:16 (a minute late!), he pushed the call button a 
fifth time with Mackie standing beside him. 
“Fuck. He’s gonna kill me,” Casper muttered under his breath.
“What was that?” Mackie asked, obviously a little 
nervous himself.
“Oh, just cursing these elevators, Councilman,” Casper 
replied. “They’ve been slow all week, and I know you’re a busy 
man. Sorry about that.”
“Well, I don’t suppose Mr. Van Dorn will mind waiting a few 
extra minutes, will he?” the lean young councilman chuckled. 
A former high-school teacher turned politician, Mackie had won 
office at the tender age of 36 on a platform of education and 
above-board politics. A year and a half later, though, he faced 
re-election and found he needed money. Bake sales just didn’t 
cut it any more. So, like nearly every other councilman before 
him, Doug Mackie had agreed to meet privately with Matthias 
Van Dorn, investor, captain of industry and the largest private 
political contributor in the city. Of course, not many people 
outside of Casper’s lobbying firm knew this last fact. Mackie was 
about to find out.
The elevator doors opened finally, revealing a car full of portly 
men and women wearing suits and tags that read “Hello, my name 
is _____.” Mackie looked like he wanted to wait for another 
car, but Casper dove in, pushing the crowd back and making room 
for the councilman. He opened his mouth, almost ready to order him 
into the car, but Mackie came of his own volition. Two-and-a-half 
minutes later (9:22!), they stood before suite 1225. Before he could 
even knock, the door swung open to reveal Van Dorn’s assistant, a 
sharp-featured politico named Spencer.
Spencer just nodded and stepped aside to allow the two men 
entry. Mackie and Casper nodded back. Five more steps brought 
them into the suite’s salon before Mr. Van Dorn, who stood by 
the window, looking out over the city. He turned to meet them, 
his impassive eyes fixing them each with a glance. Shivers ran up 
Casper’s spine, but he was used to that. It happened every time 
he met the billionaire client. A quick look to his left told him that 
Mackie felt it too, although he obviously wasn’t used to it. The 
councilman almost took a step backward. 


Clanbook: Ventrue
6
Matthias Van Dorn wore a dark gray suit, a subdued purple 
tie and perhaps the most polished leather cap-toes known to 
man. His pale, angular features and short-cropped blond hair 
looked decidedly Nordic and refined, although he spoke with no 
discernible accent. He locked eyes with Casper for a moment, and 
the lobbyist’s heart filled with dread. He wanted to run away 
and hide in some dark hole, maybe beneath the porch at mama’s 
house back in Louisiana. He’d been late. This was a bad thing. 
But the moment passed as quickly as it came. Van Dorn smiled 
to Mackie and extended his hand in greeting.
“Good evening, Councilman Mackie. It’s such a pleasure to 
finally meet you.”
“The pleasure’s all mine, Mr. Van Dorn,” said Mackie, who 
suddenly looked very gangly and awkward next to the urbane 
and refined industrialist. “Mr. Johnson here has told me so much 
about you and your interest in the city’s welfare. I’m happy I 
could find a few minutes to spare for you.” 
Ha! Casper thought, if you only knew who was sparing time 
for who. He doubted that Mackie’s comment sat well with Van 
Dorn, but the stern man showed no sign of displeasure.
“Yes, I do thank you for meeting with me,” Van Dorn said, all 
smiles and grace. “I hope it wasn’t too much of an inconvenience.”
“No, no; not at all.”
“Excellent. Please, sit down. Would you like a drink?”
“No thank you, I don’t drink,” Mackie said a little too 
quickly as he sat down in a chair opposite Van Dorn. Casper 
and Spencer remained standing, trying their best to remain 
unobtrusive. Mr. Van Dorn did not abide interruptions during his 
meetings. Casper felt for the phone in his pocket to make sure 
he’d turned it off, just in case.
“Councilman, where do you stand on the upcoming 215? The 
rezoning issue?” Van Dorn asked, already well aware of the answer.
“Well Mr. Van Dorn, I’m opposed to it. The Laurel Park 
neighborhood is one of this city’s success stories. It needs more 
schools, affordable homes and restaurants, not factories.” 
Despite Mackie’s initial unease around Van Dorn, he slipped back 
into politician mode easily, speaking on automatic.
“I see,” Van Dorn said, his tone still genial. “The neighbor-
hood certainly has improved immeasurably since I first moved to 
our fair city. Tell me, though, did you realize that unemployment 
in that area has risen steadily over the last three quarters?”
Mackie frowned. “I have to dispute your facts, sir. Unem-
ployment in this city is at its lowest point ever.”


To Fail and Succeed
7
“Oh yes, city-wide that’s true,but it’s up in the Laurel Park 
area. Up quite a bit if I recall correctly. It seems to me that the 
area needs jobs more than schools.”
“Yes, well…” Mackie looked confused, disoriented. “That 
makes sense I guess….”
Van Dorn locked eyes with Mackie. “Would you say the 
neighborhood needs the proposed industrial park?” 
“Yes. The neighborhood could benefit from the industrial park.”
Van Dorn’s gaze never left the councilman’s. Neither man 
blinked. “How do you plan to vote on Tuesday?”
“Well….”
Van Dorn kept talking. “It seems to me, that if you think 
the voters of Laurel Park need more jobs, then you should give 
them to them.” He paused to emphasize his final point. “You 
will vote for the rezoning measure on Tuesday. After all, you’ve 
come to realize that it’s better for all involved. You’ll want to 
tell anyone who asks that this project will reinvigorate the area’s 
stagnating economy.” Van Dorn stared at his untouched bourbon-
and-water, motioning to Spencer. “At least that’s how it seems to 
me. Do you agree?”
“Yes…that seems to make sense. I’ll have to think about 
it,” Mackie said distantly.
Spencer moved forward, withdrawing a checkbook from his 
coat pocket. He handed it and a pen to Van Dorn as Van Dorn 
began speaking again. “Now Mr. Mackie, I think you’re doing 
an excellent job on the city council, and I’d like to contribute 
to your reelection campaign. I’m sure I have many associates 
willing to contribute as well. For now, I, Spencer and Mr. Johnson 
here would each like to contribute the limit to your campaign. 
It’s still $1025, correct?”
“Yes, sir… thank you, sir. I sincerely appreciate your 
contribution to my campaign.” The autonomic political response 
system was kicking in. “I’m sure that we can all work together 
to make a better, more prosperous city.” 
Van Dorn smiled as he rose and shook Mackie’s hand. “I’m 
sure you’re right councilman. In the meantime, I imagine you 
have other pressing business. I’ll let you leave now.”
Mackie took the checks, shook Van Dorn’s hand and vanished 
out the door with a final vague pleasantry.
Casper was still amazed to see how persuasive Van Dorn had 
been. He was sure that Mackie would have at least held out for 
more money if he wasn’t going to stand on his principles. His 
amazement withered, though, when he felt the familiar chill 
and he realized that Van Dorn had now turned to look at him. 
Not good.
“I would have liked more time, Mr. Johnson.”
Casper felt the sweat begin to seep out of him. He swallowed 
to avoid stammering. “I’m sorry, sir. Representative—”
“I’ll need to see Mister Mackie again soon, to solidify his 
position. Arrange a meeting sometime next week, after the 
vote.” Van Dorn looked at his watch. “Now I believe you need to 
round up another appointment for me.”
Casper looked at his watch. Fuck! He had to find Senator 
Gaskins right now. “Yes, sir. I’m on my way.” It was all he could 
do to keep from running from the room. If it weren’t for the 
six-figure pay checks, it just wouldn’t be worth putting up with 
that… man…
*        *        *
Casper moved about the main ballroom, looking for Senator 
Gaskins when his pager started vibrating. 000-911. Damn; his 
assistant’s emergency code. Now what? He pulled out his phone 
and looked for a quiet place from which to call his office. He 
ducked into the men’s room and hit speed dial.
A second later, his phone flew from his grasp as someone 
knocked it across the room. It shattered against the wall, and 
pain flared in Casper’s wrist.
He turned his head just in time to see an unremarkable 
guy with pale skin, slicked back hair and a “Hello My name is 
_____” sticker grab him by the lapels and shove him into 
the wall. The force of the blow cracked the tile and at least 
three ribs. 
“What the fu—” was all he could say before the man cut 
him off. 
The attacker locked his gaze and hissed, “Quiet.” Although 
he wanted to scream bloody murder, Casper kept his mouth shut.
“All right, pretty boy. Where is he? Where’s Van Dorn?”
As scared as Casper was right then — accosted and possibly 
in dire physical peril in a hotel restroom — he was more scared 
of Van Dorn. In fact, he couldn’t help but be more scared of his 
client. He wanted to spill his guts before the assailant did it for 
him, but he couldn’t talk. He tried again, but he just gurgled 
with the effort.
Still pressing him against the wall, the man asked again, 
this time staring hard into Casper’s eyes. He enunciated every 
word carefully. “Tell me where Van Dorn is.” Casper’s head felt 
like it was splitting. He started to speak, but he couldn’t even 


Clanbook: Ventrue
8
remember in his panic. Where was Van Dorn anyway? He knew 
he’d seen him somewhere recently…. He gurgled once more.
“Listen, you fuck,” the attacker said. “Tell. Me. Where. Van. 
Dorn. Is.” His hands dug into Casper’s arms, bruising them to the 
bone. That pain was nothing, though, compared to the one in his 
head.
“Do we have a problem here, gentlemen?” another voice 
asked. Casper thought he recognized the voice. Who was that?
The attacker turned to face the newcomer. “Get the fuck 
outta here. This is a private conversation.”
Blinded by the pain, Casper couldn’t see what was going on. 
That voice, though — he was sure he knew it. It spoke again.
“Oh yes; I see. Please excuse me.” Wait; it was Spencer! 
Van Dorn’s man. Casper tried to shout for help when he realized 
it, but a rapid series of flat clicks and the wet spak of bullets 
tearing into flesh interrupted him. The pale attacker stumbled 
sideways with the impact.
Casper opened his eyes to see Spencer drop a silenced pistol 
and dive forward. The attacker was already coming at him. 
Spencer knocked him to the ground, driving something long 
and sharp into the man’s chest. The attacker shuddered once and 
stopped fighting. Spencer rolled off him, stood up and turned to 
Casper.
“Get the hell out of here,” Spencer said. “Don’t tell anyone 
about this. I’ll talk to you in a moment.” Casper promptly 
turned away to do what he was told.
*        *        *
Cold. Hard. Casper thought for a moment that he was still 
on the bathroom floor. No, he could tell it was darker here, even 
though his eyes were closed. This place’s acoustics were different 
than those in the bathroom as well. The voices’ echoes sounded 
hollow and farther away like they would in a cave. Or in a tomb.
He didn’t have it in him to open his eyes just now, even 
though the cold he felt against his cheek helped soothe the 
throbbing pain at the base of his skull. After a few deep breaths, 
the voices ceased to be background noise and suddenly became 
very important. He had just heard Matthias Van Dorn speak.
“I might as well make sure this night isn’t a total waste. It’s 
time to rouse Mr. Almodovar here,” Van Dorn was saying.
Casper heard chains rattle close by, followed by a pro-
longed, wet sucking sound and a sickening pop. The chains 
rattled louder, and Casper could hear muffled grunting. What the 
hell was going on? Where was he? How did he get here?
“Calm down, Mr. Almodovar. Do calm down.” Van Dorn’s 
voice carried no hint of irony, and presently, the struggling 
ceased. Even more surprising, as far as Casper was concerned, 
was the fact that he found himself calming down as well. His 
heart stopped racing, his head throbbed a little less intensely. He 
even managed to open his eyes.
He lay in the corner of some dark, concrete room. A single 
halogen lamp dangling from the ceiling provided light. A naked 
man with a gaping red hole in his chest hung on a nearby wall, 
suspended just a few inches above the floor. If that man flexed 
his feet, he could probably just scrape the floor with his toes. 
Casper wasn’t surprised to see that it was the same guy who’d 
attacked him in the bathroom. That made Casper feel even 
better. Van Dorn stood before the prisoner, his eyes even with the 
enchained man’s. The man on the wall kept his eyes closed and 
head turned to the side.
“Look at me Mr. Almodovar,” Van Dorn said. “You will look at 
me.” The man didn’t move. Van Dorn nodded to his left, and Spen-
cer stepped out of the shadows holding a blood-coated wooden 
stake. He strode forward and took hold of the prisoner. The bastard 
started to struggle once more, but he didn’t have anywhere to go. 
Spencer drove the stake into the bloody hole in the man’s chest.
Casper wanted to vomit, but he didn’t want to disturb Van 
Dorn by being sick in his presence. When Spencer stepped back, 
Van Dorn took hold of the stake and pulled it achingly slowly 
from the man’s chest, pausing a moment to shove it all the way 
back in before withdrawing it completely.
“I can do this all night, Mr. Almodovar. In fact, I can do it 
forever. Now, don’t you want to spare yourself all the discomfort?”
The prisoner screamed, his eyes glistening furiously under 
the halogen light. He howled like a trapped animal. Casper 
cowered in his corner, not feeling his broken ribs grind together 
or the deep, purple bruises on his arms. Van Dorn let the chained 
man thrash about for a bit before halting him with a word.
“Stop.”
Almodovar stopped. 
“I don’t know what it was you thought you were doing, 
Joachin. I just barely tolerate you as a courtesy in the first place. 
Now you attack one of my possessions? You interrogate it to get 
to me? This behavior is unacceptable. You no doubt know enough 


To Fail and Succeed
9
to think that since I am neither prince nor your sire I will not 
destroy you. Think again. You will find that the Traditions extend 
only to those who observe them. You, sir, have committed a 
grievous breach of etiquette.”
Van Dorn grabbed the prisoner by the hair stared directly into 
his eyes. Almodovar tried to look defiant, but he lost his composure 
quickly. Van Dorn had him. “Be still, oaf. It is time for you to answer 
my questions. Tell me why you needed to see me so urgently….”
The questions went on for a long time, and Almodovar 
spilled his tale. Casper sat quietly, taking it all in, trying to fig-
ure out what was going on. How could the man survive having a 
wooden spike shoved into his heart? Twice. And what happened 
to the bullet holes that should have pock-marked his entire left 
side? Casper needed answers. Unfortunately, he received none.
When the interrogation ended, Van Dorn turned to Casper. 
Casper shuddered to behold his employer when he noticed the 
flecks of blood on Van Dorn’s tailored suit. That won’t make him 
happy, Casper thought. Those will never come out.
“And now for you, whelp,” Van Dorn spat through 
curled-back lips. “I’m not sure whether to punish you for 
your ineptitude or reward you for drawing out this serpent 
in our midst.”
“If it’s all the same to you, sir, I’d gladly split the differ-
ence. Don’t feel that you have to reward me or punish me,” 
Casper rasped, shrinking from Van Dorn’s imperious scorn.
“Actually, I was thinking of giving you a little bit of both. 
It’s an inauspicious welcome to Clan Ventrue, to be sure, but 
you know my protocols at least, and it will save me from hiring 
another aide.”
“Clan Ventrue? I’m afraid I don’t know what you mean.” 
Casper didn’t try to get up, but his limbs climbed over each other 
in a race to escape Van Dorn’s closing presence.
“Oh, you’ll have plenty of time to learn. Forever, in fact.” 
And then, as Matthias Van Dorn lifted his aide from the floor, 
Casper Johnson became something else entirely.


Clanbook: Ventrue
10


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
11
I have good advice and sound wisdom;
I have insight, I have strength.
By me kings reign, and rulers decree what is just;
By me rulers rule, and nobles, all who govern rightly.
Proverbs 8:14-16
Chapter One:  
The Kings of the 
Kindred
“Our history is our guide,” a Ventrue maxim states. 
Bound by tradition and precedent, the Ventrue rely on 
their history more than any other clan. They cherish 
every aspect of it — even (or especially) the parts em-
bellished or fabricated completely. Theirs is a history of 
conquest, achievement and brilliant tactics. The fact 
that more than a few of the most esteemed makers of that 
history still walk the Earth tonight only heightens their 
reverence for the past. The clan’s history justifies their 
claim to aristocracy. It supports their agendas, it settles 
their internal disputes, and it causes endless debate. 
Without it, they would be as a ship without a rudder.
This, then, is the clan’s history as consensus. Some 
dispute individual portions. Members of other clans 
sometimes dismiss the whole story as pure fiction from 
beginning to end. The Ventrue stand by its every word, 
and few can compare with them when it comes to re-
search and the collection of their own history. Not even 
mythical Caine could know what truly happened, but it 
is maybe more important to realize that this information 
is what the Ventrue believe took place, a gradual blur 
from legend to history. In the end, all that matters to 
them is that their innate greatness resonates through 
the ages and reverberates in their wake.
Caine’s Chosen
The Ventrue claim to fame begins, quite literally, 
in the beginning. The most reliable sources state it 
firmly. Caine ordered his childer to beget the Third 
Generation; he specifically chose [Ventrue] as the first. 
In fact, he demanded that Ynosch Embrace [Ventrue], 
only to sweep the fledgling Kindred from his sire’s sway 
and place it by his side. The young [Ventrue] became 
Caine’s closest advisor and confidant. Therefore, from 
the moment the Third Generation sprang into being 
— which is to say, the moment the entire conceit of 
“clans” came to be — Ventrue could lay claim to have 
been the eldest them all, a claim to which many still 
cling in these modern nights.
For a long while, [Ventrue] served at Caine’s side, 
helping him rule over Kindred and kine in the gilded 
First City. As befit their baser natures, the others of the 
Third Generation grew jealous of [Ventrue] and his 
position, particularly the over-ambitious and cunning 


Clanbook: Ventrue
12
[Lasombra]. The dark one (as Caine himself called him 
then) could not abide even theoretical subservience 
to one such as [Ventrue]. Others resented [Ventrue’s] 
position as well: the foreign Set, the occult [Tzimisce], 
the vain [Nosferatu]. For the most part, though, the 
remaining founders respected [Ventrue] and Caine’s 
decision to elevate him above the rest. After all, no 
one disputed Caine’s wisdom openly in those nights.
Then came the Flood that wiped away the 
First City and many of the Kindred and kine 
therein. As the first drops of rain fell from the 
sky, Caine turned to [Ventrue] and declared 
that he intended to leave the younger Kindred. 
Not trusting any of his firstborn, Caine placed 
the mantle of leadership upon [Ventrue’s] 
shoulders, charging him with watching over 
the other Kindred, to steward them through 
the long nights ahead. Ever loyal to his 
grandsire, [Ventrue] accepted this grave 
responsibility. As Caine departed, the waters 
arrived and washed the city away, destroying 
many weaker Kindred who had been spawned 
during the city’s golden age.
When the baleful waters finally receded, the 
Kindred sought to rebuild their home. The six 
Cainites of the Second Generation sought to 
procure Caine’s vanished legacy for themselves, 
but few among them had ever commanded 
the Antediluvians’ respect or loyalty. In their 
desperation to be free from the Second Genera-
tion, many of the now-Antediluvians turned 
to [Ventrue] for counsel. Together they slew 
their sires and set themselves up as rulers, just 
as Caine had suggested before he left. They then 
set about building the Second City.
The War of Ages
At first, the Second City echoed the glory of 
the first. It became a place where Kindred walked 
among the kine as gods while the various blood-siblings 
of the Third Generation set about founding their re-
spective clans. Soon, though, the city became overly 
crowded, and the Kindred grew restless. Trying to hold 
the disparate community together, [Ventrue] attempted 
to listen to and resolve the Cainites’ problems — even 
the depredations of his sister, the witch. Soon the 
petty bickering turned into violent hatred. Not even 
[Ventrue] could hold the contentious broods of his fel-
lows together when not a single one of them seemed 
to want peace. Finally, Caine’s chosen successor laid 
down the law and brought the Kindred into line 
through pure force of will. He slew many wayward 


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
13
Ventrue’s Fate
Every clan wonders what became of its legend-
ary Antediluvian founder. Some claim to have 
killed theirs, others to be in constant contact. The 
Ventrue admit freely that they haven’t heard from 
their namesake in millennia, at least not so anyone 
can prove. In fact, most accuse the one known as 
Brujah — or one of her brood — of lying in wait 
just outside the walls of the Second City and striking 
[Ventrue’s] head from his neck in jealousy upon the 
third step of his quest to find Caine.
Ambitious (if heretical) Ventrue have claimed 
on several occasions that [Ventrue] has risen and 
promoted their personal play for power. The most 
famous example of such audacity was the Ventrue 
Director Vittorio Angelotti, who joined the Direc-
torate’s ranks in 1811. With the help of supernatural 
allies, Vittorio managed to create a very compelling 
but entirely false appearance of [Ventrue] at a clan 
conclave. Vittorio joined the secretive Directorate 
and sat as a member for 80 years, until an aspiring 
clan member managed to uncover a personal diary 
that explicated the entire deception from beginning 
to end. Vittorio disappeared from sight, never to be 
heard from again.
childer and banished the unruly among the Third 
Generation, including Set and the vengeful Mekhet. 
Many resented such high-handed treatment, but none 
could stand up to [Ventrue’s] authority.
For a short while, a tense peace existed within 
the city. Still, [Ventrue’s] heart pined for Caine’s 
assuring guidance. As jealousy and hatred continued 
to boil just below the surface, [Ventrue] cast his gaze 
out beyond the city walls. He had sent some of his 
childer to search for the First Vampire, and some had 
returned with rumors of his whereabouts. Encouraged 
by these signs and thinking the city safe under his edict, 
[Ventrue] left to find Caine and bring him back. He 
left one of his own childer to watch over the fuming 
clans while he was gone.
As it turned out, this decision was [Ventrue’s] 
sole mistake. After he departed, the other Kindred of 
the Third Generation gave in to their own greed and 
treachery once more. [Lasombra] was the first to break 
ranks, seizing the opportunity to attack [Ventrue’s] 
childer and claim the city as domain for himself. He 
did not hold it for long. The other Antediluvians rose 
up as well, not content to sit by and watch [Lasombra] 
steal what [Ventrue] had claimed despite their own 
In spite of such frauds, Ventrue still claim to 
see signs of their founder’s presence from time to 
time. Most common are Kindred or even mortals 
obviously operating under intense Dominate by 
some powerful Kindred. Sometimes, this mysterious 
puppeteer claims to be [Ventrue]; sometimes he 
keeps his identity a secret. Theorists have observed 
a certain commonality to all these appearances 
that leads many to believe that one powerful 
Kindred is behind all of them. A stranger appears, 
usually a mortal or neonate, evidencing powerful 
Disciplines. He or she always shows up in times 
of trouble for certain Ventrue, or when rival fac-
tions have warred for too long. The stranger helps 
avert crisis and refocus the Kindred against some 
common enemy. Whether [Ventrue] or some other 
clan elder is behind these appearances remains a 
mystery, but legend and rumor definitely fingers 
the founder as the interloper, albeit with little 
verification for such speculation. Some paranoid 
Kindred think that someone else is using [Ven-
true’s] “good name” to interfere with the clan. 
Either way, the Ventrue elders would prefer that 
whoever it is cease or step out of hiding.
desires. The battle had begun. [Tzimisce] plotted with 
[Lasombra], much as their two broods would later 
unite under the banner of the Sabbat. Lucien drove 
his brother into torpor and salted the earth where he 
lay. [Nosferatu] and Set cut Arikel’s dead heart from 
her body and ate it. The fragile peace that had existed 
under [Ventrue’s] guidance gave way to violence and 
thievery, each night a new treason committed by one 
Ancient against another. Inevitably, in this climate, 
the Second City would fall.
Diaspora
Distraught and depressed at the Kindred’s failure, 
many surviving Ventrue moved west, into the Medi-
terranean. They spread out among the kine, seeking 
havens from the violence and turmoil that crippled 
the Second City. Like many Kindred at the time, they 
set themselves up as gods, heroes and seers among the 
mortals. Many carried on the clan’s legacy by leading 
kine communities either directly or indirectly.
It was at this time that the Ventrue first learned to 
respect and even fear what mortals could accomplish 
if they set their minds to it and could mass enough 
numbers. The lesson came, as did so many in the early 


Clanbook: Ventrue
14
nights, with a high price. One of [Ventrue’s] own childer, 
Medon, had set himself up as god-king of a growing 
community on an isle in the Aegean. He ruled with 
absolute authority, demanding service from every kine 
and giving little in return. 
Some say that Medon’s fate was the result of an-
other Kindred’s vendetta, but little evidence supports 
this position. Most agree that it was merely the mortal 
mob rearing its indignant head, as it would do time and 
again down through the ages. What no one can doubt 
is that the kine burned Medon’s palace and staked him 
out in the sunlight to die an agonizing Final Death. 
One of the destroyed Kindred’s childer escaped to tell 
the tale, and it spread through the Ventrue community 
like wildfire. If such could happen to one of the clan’s 
strongest, it could happen to any of them.
Sparta
No one learned to fear the power of mortals better 
than the Ventrue who took the name Artemis. She, 
along with a number of other Ventrue, had settled in 
the prosperous region of Greece called the Pelopon-
nesus. The Dorian Greeks had built on this peninsula 
the foundations of communities that would become 
great cities —places such as Corinth and Argos, in 
particular, and most important of all, Sparta. Artemis 
— then known by another name — settled in a small 
rural community of four villages, a few shoddy wooden 
temples and not much else.
What, then, made Artemis pause in her wander-
ings at this rustic crossroads that offered so little to 
attract a Ventrue? It was a man who had a dream for 
the rough-hewn folk of Sparta — a dream that would 
transform them into the most feared fighting machine 
in all Greece. His name was Lycurgus, and he was about 
to pass into legend. Artemis intended to feed upon the 
philosopher, but he drew her into conversation, discuss-
ing his dream for the Spartans. With Medon’s death 
still fresh in her mind (although several centuries had 
passed), Artemis saw the potential threat and utility of 
Lycurgus’ dream. She decided to follow a course that 
so many Ventrue after her would emulate. Rather than 
try to oppose or dominate the growing power of mortal 
institutions (and risk being run over in the process), she 
bought into the Spartan invigoration, following mortal 
makers of the future.
This Ventrue took upon herself the role of Artemis 
Orthia, Sparta’s patron goddess. She watched Lycurgus 
win over the Spartan people and install his fabled 


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
15
constitution. Even she was somewhat surprised when 
the ambitious Spartans invaded the neighboring region 
of Messina, enslaving the entire region. Artemis saw 
in the Spartans many parallels to Kindred existence. 
A large serf population made progress possible for the 
Spartans, just as the large kine population made Kindred 
existence possible. Having so many serfs allowed the 
Spartans to devote their entire lives to perfecting the 
art of war. Where most Greek city-states had to spend 
their time farming or trading to support themselves, 
the Spartans could focus solely upon the challenges of 
self-perfection and self-defense. Unswervingly loyal, 
unflinchingly brave and nearly unbeatable in battle, 
the Spartans struck Artemis as a flawless model of the 
mortal potential.
Other Ventrue soon flocked to the Peloponnesus, 
seeking to work with Artemis to ride the Spartan war 
machine to power. Each settled in a different city within 
the region, urging the city leaders toward a conclusion 
most of them had already reached on their own: bet-
ter to ally with Sparta than face its wrath. Thus, the 
Peloponnesian League — a loose alliance of city-states 
with Sparta at its center — came to be. The second 
most powerful city within the alliance was Corinth, a 
rich commercial community. The Ventrue Evarchus 
claimed this city as his domain and he, too, learned 
important lessons that the Ventrue would carry with 
them for millennia to come.
Corinth thrived on trade, particularly in its prized 
pottery and Peloponnesian foodstuffs. Backed by Sparta’s 
military might, its merchant ships traveled throughout 
the Aegean and expanded the league’s influence and 
power. Evarchus understood that money had real power 
over the kine. Kindred had seldom had much use for 
currency, but in a world where mortal institutions 
grew more and more expansive, money seemed to be a 
key to influencing the kine. Evarchus’ merchant fleets 
arguably made him the first truly “wealthy” Ventrue, 
and others would follow in his footsteps thereafter. All 
went well, even in the face of two Persian invasions. 
Sparta, Corinth and the Ventrue Peloponnesian League 
continued to prosper.
The First Brujah War
Athens and Sparta had fought side by side in the 
great war against Persia. This war was a mortal con-
cern, one the Kindred had little to do with. In fact, 
Artemis tried to keep her Spartans from becoming 
involved at all, but she found that her influence over 
them indeed had a limit. Proud, brave and scorn-
ful of the barbarian Persian king, the Spartans had 
marched off to war and into history without their 
goddess’ reluctant blessing. Even though they returned 
victorious, she was not pleased. Nor was Evarchus, 
Prince of Corinth. In the wake of the war, Athens 
began to rise in power and rival Corinth’s position 
as the wealthiest trading city in Greece.
Although Athenian ability played no small role in 
the city-state’s meteoric rise, the citizens had a little 
help from a few enterprising Brujah. Long attracted 
to innovative thoughts and ideas, several Brujah had 
settled in Athens to take in its glories. While Pericles 
built his beautiful city as a monument to Athenian 
power, these Brujah Kindred sat by his side, helping 
when they deigned to do so, but mostly enjoying 
the fruits of Athenian labors. They watched quietly 
as the Athenians established the Delian League, a 
powerful military and trade alliance that stood in 
undoubted opposition to the Spartan-led Pelopon-
nesian League. Meanwhile, Evarchus of Corinth saw 
his profits decline with each passing year — more so 
since the Delian League came into being. He did not 
have to convince the city’s rulers that Athens was the 
problem. They came to despise Athens just as much 
as the Ventrue did.
Conflict seemed inevitable. The two great alliances 
finally came to a head, thanks in no small part to the 
urgings of Evarchus and eventually Artemis. A long, 
terrible war ensued, lasting decades and engulfing all of 
Greece in a seasonal struggle. The Kindred held back 
from battle, preferring not to risk their unlives over 
mortal assets — yet. The Athenian Brujah could all 
but ignore the conflict, since Athens’ high walls kept 
the Spartans at bay and the Athenian fleets ensured 
continued prosperity. Besides, they found the fickle 
masses of the Athenian Assembly too fractured when 
they did try to interfere. Their influence over indi-
vidual members was not enough to sway the greater 
body of the assembly. Artemis and Evarchus feared 
attacking Athens on their own without their Spartan 
troops behind them. Eventually, thanks to the genius 
of a Spartan general named Lysander, Sparta sank 
the Athenian navy and lay siege to the city. Athens 
surrendered after a deadly plague ripped through the 
population and Sparta had won.
Artemis and Evarchus visited the troops as they 
marched into the city, fully prepared to take their 
vengeance on the arrogant Kindred of Athens. It was 
not to be. The wily Cainites had fled the city, and the 
first “Brujah War” ended without either side spilling 
the other’s blood. However, it left a bitter taste in the 
mouths of Sparta’s Ventrue patrons. Several Brujah 
and Toreador called the Ventrue barbaric and power-
mad, while the Ventrue came to think of the Brujah 


Clanbook: Ventrue
16
as dangerous dreamers with no sense of decorum. The 
conflict set the pattern for things to come between 
the two clans. 
Like all legendary ages, though, the epoch of Sparta’s 
glory passed shortly thereafter. In but a few short de-
cades, Spartan hegemony fell like a house of cards to 
the upstart Thebans, whose city seemed remarkably free 
from Kindred presence. Artemis’ temple was burned, and 
she and her brood fled into the night. Evarchus lingered 
in Corinth for many more years until he finally slipped 
into torpor for a few centuries. Awake once more and 
residing in Greece, Evarchus supposedly exists in the 
modern nights as but an echo of his greatness during 
the mythic age.
The Latin Ventrue
When Artemis and Lysander fled west in the 
fourth century B.C., they found Ventrue among the 
Romans already established on the Italian Peninsula. 
The Ventrue had settled among the Etruscans, an 
ingenious and prosperous people of central Italy, 
centuries before. The Ventrue had existed there in 
quiet peace, many claiming a small Etruscan city as 
her own domain. Then came Collat. Ventrue history 
credits Collat with leading the revolution that freed 
Rome from its Etruscan rulers and established the first 
Latin state. Whether or not Collat actually started the 
revolution is unknown, but he certainly took advantage 
of it. He set himself up as the Kindred Prince of Rome 
and watched his city grow.
Rome’s power and sovereignty spread in fits and 
starts over the next few centuries, expanding to include 
all the former Etruscan cities and eventually most of 
Italy. Collat and his Ventrue brood profited from the 
expansion, following the soldiers into new cities and 
claiming domains there. It was Collat, though, who 
set the pattern for future Ventrue in Rome and in the 
world at large. Unlike many Kindred at that time, he 
did not rule openly or claim to be a god. The Romans 
were a religious, superstitious and proud people. They 
were more likely to stake and burn a vampire than try to 
coexist with him. Therefore, the Ventrue of Italy main-
tained a low profile, collecting favors from its citizens 
and governors and influencing events from behind the 
scenes by calling on them to repay their debts.
When war with Pyrrhus of Epirus brought Rome 
into direct conflict with the Greek cities of southern 
Italy, the Italian Ventrue came into contact with Greek 
Ventrue who had settled the area, including recent 
arrivals Artemis and Lysander. Artemis had retired to 
Athens’ ancient enemy Syracuse to lick her wounds and 
eventually escape from the world into torpor. Lysander 
Famous Ventrue
What do Alexander, Katherine and Frederick 
the Great; Julius Caesar; Charlemagne; William the 
Conqueror; Niccolo Machiavelli; Louis XIV; George 
Washington; Robert E. Lee and Winston Churchill 
have in common? None of them — not a one — was 
ever either a Ventrue or a Kindred at all. In fact, over 
the course of history, the Ventrue have Embraced 
very few world leaders into their esteemed midst, a 
fact that no doubt seems odd when compared to the 
clan’s known reverence for rank, title and heritage. 
The fact of the matter is that Embracing a famous 
mortal is almost always more trouble than it’s worth, 
especially in the modern nights.
First of all, famous folk make bad vampires. 
People tend to notice when their king never ages 
or he turns up again somewhere else a decade after 
he supposedly died. Still, this hurdle was not always 
so great, especially in previous centuries. Before 
photographs, it was unlikely that many mortals 
remembered what the king really looked like after 
a few decades. No, the real problem is that kings 
and potentates do not make good neonates. Used 
to being on top of the world, they have a hard time 
dealing with the frightful realities of unlife as rank 
fledglings in the shadow society of the Kindred.
As the Ventrue grew more and more diverse along 
ethnic and cultural lines in the past two millennia, 
the lot of the neonate has worsened steadily. In an-
cient times, a newly Embraced warlord could take 
a place at his sire’s side immediately and help rule 
the commoners. Tonight, that same Kindred would 
spend the next hundred years learning the ways of 
the Jyhad and the intricacies of the Traditions, no 
matter who her sire might be. Most are unwilling 
to face once more the hurdles and challenges they 
already faced in life. Immortal or no, they simply 
don’t have the patience for it. It’s much better to 
Embrace a younger mortal, one of good breeding 
and background who’s still impressionable enough 
to appreciate her place in the world and be willing 
to work for a better unlife.
had established himself in the Greek city of Tarrentum. 
Tarrentum eventually became the focus of Rome’s 
war with Pyrrhus, and, when all of southern Italy fell, 
Lysander himself fell into the hands of Collat’s most 
promising childe: Camilla.
Camilla and Lysander debated for years. A young 
Kindred of potent blood, Camilla knew little of the world 
outside Italy. The war with Italy’s Greeks had exposed 


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
17
the Romans to all manner of new and exciting things, 
from coined currency to elephants. It also exposed 
Camilla to Ventrue history and to the way Lysander 
and Artemis had led their unlives in Greece. Brought 
up by Collat to believe that Kindred should lurk in the 
background, he was both horrified and intrigued to learn 
that Artemis had set herself up as a goddess. Moreover, 
he was most impressed with the martial might she had 
helped foster amongst the Spartans. What Camilla 
learned inspired him….
Camilla’s Reign
With Lysander at his side, Camilla returned to Rome. 
There he confronted Collat with his vision: a vision of 
Ventrue not only following the Romans as their empire 
expanded, but guiding, even directing their legions. 
What happened next remains a mystery. Camilla and 
Lysander claimed that Collat saw the wisdom in Col-
lat’s plan and decided to step down. Ventrue scholars 
simply assume that the two young Ventrue destroyed 
their elder and covered up the evidence. Either way, 
Collat disappears from the clan’s history at this point, 
and Camilla steps to the forefront.
Camilla took lessons from both Collat and Artemis. 
He would not set himself up as a god, but he would 
not hide in the background. Instead he interacted 
actively with the leading patrician families in Rome 
and encouraged them to undertake certain policies. 
The difference between how he interacted with them 
and how many other Kindred worked with kine was 
that Camilla worked through proxies rather than as 
a god or through coarse use of Disciplines. He offered 
favors in exchange for representation at the Senate (as 
Camilla was not himself a senator), or he put people 
in touch with others for similar considerations. When 
his contacts grew old or fell out of favor, he cultivated 
others. In this sense, Collat set the precedent for many 
Ventrue. Rather than bullying their way through mor-
tals, these “enlightened” Ventrue learned to politic in 
a fashion that not only hid them from the matter, but 
allowed mortals to think that what the Ventrue wanted 
was what they wanted.
For example, Camilla was a proponent of building 
and maintaining the vaunted Roman roads. As many 
Romans knew, the roads were key to not only travel, but 
to facilitating trade as well. Without roads, the empire 
would have collapsed far earlier into tiny, autonomous 
principalities. Therefore, it was in the interests of the 
imperial government — particularly those in power 
— to protect their investment, as the preservation of 
their power depended upon it. Camilla’s task was easy: 
Simply ensure that enough officials understood the 


Clanbook: Ventrue
18
truth of the matter and let it take care of itself. Indeed, 
Camilla didn’t even need to approach every member of 
the empowered government. Most were quite content 
to continue growing rich, regardless of Kindred counsel.
Many other Kindred fail to realize that the Blue 
Bloods don’t hoard power, wealth and influence for 
themselves. Only the most foolish vampire sets himself 
up as a dictator. The wise Ventrue shares power, calling 
upon favors and offering his services in return. Doing so 
not only keeps the true master hidden from view, but it 
also ensures that an enemy can never truly unseat an 
influential Ventrue from her position of comfort without 
crippling her vast network of contacts and allies. Rivals 
may lop as many heads from the hydra as they wish, 
but the body is what must die to truly ruin a Ventrue.
Camilla’s methods made him wealthy and, ulti-
mately, decadent. His ghouls fed and protected him 
while he tried to rule Rome through mortal proxies. 
Lysander advised him in turn, although he grew wary 
of Camilla’s decline. He traveled throughout Italy 
and the Mediterranean, acting as Rome’s eyes and 
sometimes strong hand in Kindred matters. Of course, 
Lysander had his own goals. His eyes looked constantly 
eastward to his homeland, which even then was ruled 
by the upstart Macedonian descendants of Alexander 
the Great. First, however, the Roman Ventrue faced a 
greater problem: Carthage.
The Second Brujah War
Carthage, the new capital of the Phoenician 
people, had become the predominant city in Northern 
Africa and one of the most potent trading powers in 
the Mediterranean. Its colonies extended all the way 
through the African coast and on into Iberia. It stood 
as Rome’s chief rival in the West, although it had yet to 
threaten Rome itself. For his part, Camilla cared little 
about Carthage. His ambitions still remained confined 
to Italy or possibly to the land that Lysander so coveted. 
It was Lysander who saw danger in the African city. It 
was Lysander who saw the Brujah.
The Greek Lysander, who had unknowingly fought 
the Brujah during the Peloponnesian War, had inherited 
his sire’s hatred of the clan. In his travels on behalf of 
Rome, Lysander had heard many tales of Brujah walk-
ing openly among the kine of Carthage, ruling over 
them like gods, demanding blood-tithes and sacrifices. 
Lysander himself journeyed to the city to discover the 
truth of these rumors, and he was shocked to find them 
all too true. This behavior had apparently been going 
on for centuries, and brutal broods of Assamites and 
Brujah had the Carthaginian population well cowed. 
By the time of Lysander’s reconnaissance, some even 
planned to expand their infernal practices to Spain and 
threaten Gaul. Italy would not be far behind. 
Lysander returned to Camilla to report what he 
had found. He no doubt embellished the tales, tainted 
as his perception was by his own dislike for the Brujah 
because of their Athenian connection. Camilla, though, 
was slow to act. He did not feel comfortable engaging 
the enemy on their own ground, and he was not so sure 
Carthage was truly an enemy. He had grown complacent 
in his position, fatted by bloody excess. Lysander urged 
his prince to take action again and again, but Camilla 
refused until the weight of Malkavian and Toreador 
counsel convinced him otherwise in a round about way.
In 265 B.C., Greek colonies occupied most of Sicily, 
independent from both Roman and Macedonian rule. 
A scattering of autarkis dwelt on the island, with differ-
ent clan-broods residing in different cities. The greatest 
of them all was Syracuse, where Artemis had fled and 
slipped into torpor and where now a Malkavian prince 
named Alchias sat enthroned. Alchias did not care 
about Carthage; he scarcely knew that Brujah resided 
there. In fact, it was the mortal leaders of the city who 
started the war. The Carthaginians had intervened in 
a dispute between Syracuse and the neighboring city 
of Messina. They not only settled the dispute, they oc-
cupied both cities afterward.
Then a Brujah of Dominic the Rogue’s lineage 
came to Alchias, stating in no uncertain terms that 
both Carthage and the Brujah had plans for Sicily and 
Syracuse. Prince Alchias flew into a rage at the implied 
threat, decapitating the startled Brujah envoy. Unsure 
of what to do next, he fortunately had someone to turn 
to for advice: the recently awakened Artemis and the 
bull-dancer Arikel. This coalition summoned Lysander 
to the city, and together they concocted a plan to en-
gage Rome in a war with Carthage. Lysander returned 
to Rome to once again plead his case to Camilla while 
Alchias urged the governors of Syracuse to commit 
soldiers to the imminent battle.
The result was the First Punic War, a battle that 
would decide the fate of both Sicily and Corsica as well 
as set the tone for Brujah-Ventrue relations for centuries 
to come. The Carthaginian and Roman armies and navies 
fought for years in an evenly matched stalemate of a war. 
Carthage made a few forays into Sicily and Italy, but its 
army was repulsed bloodily on each occasion. Likewise, 
Roman raids into Africa met with similarly dismal fates. 
In the end, the mortals finished the war. Rome proved 
victorious, annexing both disputed islands.
Despite the ostensible victory, Carthage remained 
a power to be reckoned with, and several cults of Bru-
jah, Assamites and Baal-revering Cainite heretics still 


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
19
rampaged there. Alchias, Lysander and the now-awake 
Artemis all put pressure on Camilla to continue the war 
and follow up on the victory. Rome’s prince refused. 
He had seen what happened when Kindred set foot 
in Africa: They disappeared forever. Until the Brujah 
posed a serious threat to Rome itself, he would not act.
Carthago Delenda Est
The second war with Carthage came 20 years later, 
and it had nothing to do with Kindred at all. It began in 
faraway Spain, where only a few Brujah neonates resided 
with the cruel Lasombra. The mortal Hannibal and his 
fellow Carthaginians set the city to war on their own 
by capturing the Roman allied colony of Saguntum. 
Hannibal then marched east and south across the Alps 
to invade Italy itself, where he and his army remained 
for the next 15 years. While Romans and Carthaginians 
involved themselves in the bloodiest fighting they had 
ever seen, most Kindred remained silent and stunned. 
Many Italian Cainites were too scared to leave their 
cities, and the Sicilian Malkavians and Toreador had 
their hands full with fresh Carthaginian incursions. The 
Brujah sat back in Africa and let their human allies do 
most of the fighting.
Eventually, the Romans turned the tables and forced 
Hannibal back to Africa. The Roman legions followed 
along soon after, invading Africa and defeating Hannibal 
on his home ground.
Camilla and the other Kindred stayed in their ha-
vens for this last fight, still recovering from nearly two 
decades of war in their peninsula. Carthage surrendered 
and agreed to Roman terms, ceding Spain and making 
other concessions to the Roman victors. Although upset 
by the defeat, Carthage itself remained a secure city so 
the Brujah were content, for the time being.
Romans, Ventrue and the loosely allied Toreador and 
Malkavians in Sicily alike were not so pleased with the 
outcome. Lysander urged for a final end to the conflict. 
The mortal army might have been defeated, but the 
immortal enemies remained as powerful as ever. Other 
clans came to Camilla as well, led by the Malkavian 
Prince Alchias. The wanted Carthage eliminated for 
good. Meanwhile, the Roman people were being en-
couraged to fight as well. The famed Roman orator Cato 
the Elder had an obsession with Carthage. For years 
he ended every speech he gave in the Senate with the 
same phrase: Carthago delenda est — Carthage must be 
destroyed. Lysander picked up the refrain and echoed 
it in Camilla’s ear. 
Whether it was Cato or Lysander rallying the cause, 
the result was the same. Camilla agreed to ally with the 
other clans and eradicate the Assamite-Brujah menace 
in Carthage for all time. In one of the few instances in 
which the Ventrue actually provoked a mortal world 
conflict, Rome once again declared war on Carthage 
in 150 B.C., five full decades after the end of the last 
great struggle. The Roman fleets and armies attacked 
Carthage and lay siege to the city, surrounding it with 
a wall of troops and ships.
The Third Punic War amounted to not much of a 
battle for the Romans: a quick siege and capitulation. 
For the Ventrue, it was the greatest, largest battle they 
had ever fought. While Roman legions razed the city, 
Ventrue, Toreador, Malkavian and a few Gangrel offi-
cers helped lead the charge and did battle in the streets 
with the Carthaginian Brujah for five nights. Scores of 
Kindred died on both sides, along with several thousand 
mortals. Never before or since has such a titanic battle 
taken place openly between Kindred. Any lucky enough 
to have survived those nights can testify that it was a 
blood-soaked horror beyond all others. 
The invaders won the night, albeit at a terrible cost. 
Artemis herself had led the first foray into the city, and she 
was torn to shreds by a pack of frenzied Brujah berserks. 
Prince Alchias was so badly hurt that he slipped into a 
torpor from which he might never have recovered — his 
fate remains a mystery. Lysander emerged from the battle 
scarred but otherwise intact, having taken the final Brujah 
head himself. Camilla had remained in Rome, but his 
fledgling progeny Tiberius Carnifex slew an entire cell of 
Assamites before succumbing to their envenomed vitae. 
The city surrendered soon thereafter, and the legions 
began the sack proper. On Lysander’s orders, they razed 
the city to the ground, killing thousands and enslaving 
the rest. They salted the earth so that nothing would 
ever grow there again — and so that no torpid Cainite 
could rise. The war with Carthage was over.
The Senate’s Failure
Rome’s place in the world grew by leaps and bounds 
after Carthage’s destruction. Next came Greece, then 
Asia Minor, then the Near East, then Gaul, then Egypt. 
The Roman Empire dominated most of the known 
world, and Camilla and his fellow Ventrue sat in the 
center of it all. Of course, so did a great many Kindred 
from other clans. The Malkavians, the Toreador, the 
Gangrel and even the Roman Nosferatu had all played 
roles in defeating Carthage, so they claimed a share of 
the spoils. Many of these clans already held influence 
within the newly conquered Roman provinces, and 
they were not about to give up just because the mortal 
government had changed.


Clanbook: Ventrue
20
For the first time since the fall of the Second City, 
Ventrue had to learn how to exist in peace with the 
other clans. Doing so proved more difficult than it would 
have seemed since the Ventrue themselves had fallen to 
squabbling with one another. As the Prince of Rome and 
one of the architects of the Empire, Camilla was without 
a doubt the most influential Ventrue — if not Kindred 
— in the world. He decided that such power deserved 
recognition and that the individual Ventrue scattered 
throughout the Mediterranean should pay him heed.
This desire for dominance ground against everything 
individual Ventrue had practiced for thousands of years. 
Each was used to being his own master, beholden to none, 
with the possible exceptions of sires or patrons chosen at 
their own discretion. Certainly they recognized a kinship, 
but clan hierarchy was more a question of social standing 
than temporal rank even in those nights. Ventrue held 
what power and position they could, and damned be the 
rest of the world. They had no friends, only allies of the 
moment. As a clan, they came together semi-regularly in 
a deliberative body not unlike the Roman Senate. This 
Ventrue assembly body proved even more ineffective than 
its less-than-impressive mortal counterpart. Factions tore 
the Senate apart and prevented any real decisions from 
being made, while many Ventrue seemed more inclined 
to make deals and alliances with other clans than their 
own brethren.
As before with the Punic Wars, Camilla ended up 
making one of his greatest decisions not by his own 
design, but rather after inspiration from his mortal 
counterparts. Together, Julius Caesar, Pompey the Great, 
Marcus Antonius and Octavian busied themselves with 
eviscerating the Roman constitution and the Senate’s 
power. Strong men, tired of working within the con-
straints of an elected government, dragged the empire 
into a bloody civil war. Decades of fighting later Octa-
vian, emerged as victor and renamed himself Augustus, 
Emperor of Rome.
Camilla liked what he saw. In the chaos of the 
civil wars, Ventrue authority within Rome had slipped 
even further. Members of other clans claimed domains 
in important cities and isolated the Ventrue position, 
but individual Ventrue were too divided to do anything 
about it. The Ventrue assembly had not met for three 
decades, and it showed no signs of ever meeting again. 
With the help of his blood-bound brood and his trusted 
ally Lysander, Camilla set about enforcing a clan unity — 
at which the two anticipated no end of rankling strife.


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
21
The Golden Age and 
Transformation
Camilla could not quite mirror Augustus’ great 
accomplishment, and he failed to set himself up as 
sole ruler of the Ventrue. He did, however, manage 
to bring many of the less powerful Kindred into line. 
He established a system whereby the most important 
Ventrue within a given city or region had “authority” 
over the younger members of the clan. He claimed 
a local supremacy for himself as preeminent among 
the Roman Ventrue, although a number of other 
powerful Ventrue, including Lysander, had practical 
autonomy. Obviously, the clan could not have abso-
lute authority over its members — nor was such the 
nature of Camilla’s claim. Instead, the clan served as 
a guide and resource to its members. It began to take 
on many of the functions that it has tonight, such as 
providing a forum for settling disputes, a network for 
alliance against common foes and a social denomina-
tor of contacts and potential allies to help individual 
An Ancient Grudge
More often than not, Ventrue simply do not get 
along with one another. Clans tradition demands 
that they come to one another’s aid when asked and 
prohibits them from encroaching on each other’s 
domains, but beyond that, they often work against 
each other more than for any arbitrary common good. 
Clan history has seen some truly infamous rivalries 
develop between members, some of which have gone 
on for thousands of years. One of the most famous — a 
tale sires tell their childer to this night — is the feud 
between Demetrius of Massilia and Gaius Fabricius 
of Ravenna.
Greek colonists founded the ancient port city 
of Massilia (now known as Marseilles) long before 
Rome rose to power. When the entire south of France 
fell under Roman authority centuries later, Massilia 
held out as a free city for quite some time. Eventu-
ally, though, it fell square into the Roman Empire, 
which Demetrius never forgave. A distinguished 
Ventrue, Demetrius sat as the Prince of Massilia for 
centuries, nearly since the city’s founding. He had 
worked with his clanmates in Rome, helping them 
when required and assuring autonomy for his beloved 
city in exchange. When Roman troops stormed the 
city in the first century B.C., Demetrius went into a 
rage and blamed one of the elder Ventrue in Rome, 
Gaius Fabricius. The fact that Fabricius had nothing 
to do with the event and that Julius Caesar had ev-
erything to do with it did not bother Demetrius. He 
blamed Fabricius for failing to make Caesar a pawn.
Ever since that night, Demetrius has worked 
against Fabricius at every turn. Although the Roman 
Ventrue bore the Greek no ill will at first, he quickly 
took up the feud on his own in retaliation for Deme-
trius’ constant attacks. Now, 2000 years later, they are 
well beyond the point of reconciliation. Both have 
tried and failed to sway the ranks of the clan, to some 
degree because their rival stood in their way, but also 
because few outside the drama wish to be dragged into 
it. Any undertaking in which one involves himself, 
the other opposes out of venomous spite, even if it is 
against his best interests to do so. Their acrimony even 
extends to their progeny, their progeny’s progeny and 
so on. Although both are reputed Cainites of the Fifth 
Generation, they have been known to take out their 
aggressions on lowly neonates who can claim a rival’s 
lineage. As often as not, the rival doesn’t even know 
that the poor descendent even exists.
Each justifies his position by citing ages-old 
treachery on the other’s part. Regardless of the feud’s 
legacy, most Ventrue realize that not every move in 
the Jyhad is grave — some are petty, fueled only by 
bitterness. Forever is a long time to bear a grudge.
Ventrue achieve their personal goals. The clan claimed 
chroniclers, historians, adjudicators known as “nota-
ries” and “vouchsafes” and even enforcers who could 
bring unruly neonates to bear if they became a liability 
to more influential Ventrue.
For the next five centuries, the Ventrue prospered 
as a clan. As Rome spread its influence, Ventrue trav-
eled in its wake. Ambitious Ventrue, always eager for 
new lands to claim, spread with the Empire, establish-
ing domains throughout Spain, France, modern-night 
Benelux and Britain. In the East, where populations 
were larger, Ventrue came to dwell in concert with 
other clans throughout Asia Minor, Syria and Egypt. 
The mortal world saw periods of upheavals and pros-
perity as Rome went through a long series of good and 
bad emperors.
If the Brujah mourn the fall of Carthage, so do 
the Ventrue  grieve for the fall of Rome, placing too 
much emphasis on the short reigns of insane men like 
Caligula and Nero in the first century but ignoring the 
wise reigns of men like Vespasian, Trajan and Marcus 
Aurelius in the centuries that followed. The truth is, 


Clanbook: Ventrue
22
Rome did not truly fall in A.D. 476 or on any other 
specific date. It merely evolved into something else, and 
the Ventrue followed reluctantly. The same can be said 
for Camilla, who had overseen Rome and its Ventrue 
for nearly a thousand years before he finally slipped into 
torpor. Meanwhile, his trusted aide Lysander moved east 
with the empire’s seat of power, observing quietly the 
politics of what would become the Byzantine Empire 
and last until the Crusades.
In the West, the empire dissolved gradually into dis-
crete nations and kingdoms. The Ventrue were there all 
along, merely exchanging their governors and generals 
for kings and princes. They had also found a new venue 
for exploitation, a human institution that showed every 
sign of some day rivaling the empire itself: the Catholic 
Church. The Ventrue became involved in the Church, 
and they Embraced some of the most important Kindred 
the clan has ever known, such as Fabrizio Ulfila, from 
its influential ranks. In effect, the clan was now split 
into two halves: the old guard that had migrated east 
with the changing focus of the Roman Empire, and the 
newer Ventrue who remained to take advantage of the 
growing disorder and the Church’s increasing influence 
on society. A noteworthy minority, disillusioned with 
the collapse of the Roman Empire, withdrew from the 
political unlife altogether, preferring instead to observe 
the passage of time from a cloak of shadows. It is even 
rumored by some that this faction formed the basis of 
the mysterious Inconnu.
The Dark Ages
For vampires, anything called the “Dark Ages” 
has to have its benefits. It certainly seemed thus to 
the Ventrue at the time. Human institutions, with the 
exception of the Church, were weaker than they had 
been in a thousand years. Individual Kindred could ex-
ist practically out in the open as masters of their own 
individual domains and occasional rulers of mortal lands. 
The system Camilla had devised to unify the clan fell 
by the wayside as single Ventrue came to care about 
only themselves once more.
The clan itself split into two distinct halves: the 
Western Kindred who focused their attention on indi-
vidual nobles and personal domains, and the Eastern 
Ventrue who retained close ties to what remained of 
the Roman Empire in the form of Byzantium. While 
clan unity might have suffered, few Ventrue cared for 
such esoteric (and largely impossible) matters. After 
centuries under Camilla’s strict rule, they thrilled at the 
chance to stretch their wings on their own.
During the Crusades, this split became a source of 
deadly contention within the clan. Western Ventrue, 
tied to an aristocracy of Christians and their Roman 
Church came into direct conflict with Eastern Ventrue 
and their Greek Orthodox and Muslim allies. Although 
neither side made any organized effort, a number of 
small rivalries and contests between Ventrue broke 
out during this time. In a few instances, Ventrue even 
came into direct contact, fighting one another openly, 
sometimes even destroying one another. For example, 
a faction of Slavic Ventrue ousted Ventrue claiming 
Teutonic and more Western origins in Eastern Europe, 
and became known as the Eastern Lords. Caught up in 
the undisciplined freedom of the Long Night, the clan 
as a whole was sinking to a low point in its history. Then 
things became much, much worse.
Buried History
Archeology is a relatively new science, one 
devised and largely practiced by mortals. As far as 
many Ventrue are concerned, the relics of the past 
that aren’t already in someone’s hands are lost for 
good. Or that used to be the feeling, at least. Recent 
finds by younger Ventrue in search of their clan’s past 
have changed these attitudes for many. In a clan 
obsessed with ritual and history and tradition, items 
from the past carry great cachet. Someone who can 
claim to hold Camilla’s laurel crown or a stone from 
the Second City haven of [Ventrue] himself earns 
the immediate respect and (more importantly) envy 
of his fellow Kindred. Of course this passion applies 
generally to Ventrue-related artifacts. Kine or even 
other Kindred objects (except those with universal 
appeal, like anything relating to the mythical Caine) 
hold little interest to most Ventrue.
With their tremendous resources, more than a 
few Ventrue have funded large-scale archeological 
digs in sites of known Kindred interest. In order to 
preserve the Masquerade, several Ventrue agents or 
ghouls usually oversee such projects along with a 
younger Kindred who monitors the situation from 
afar, the better to take care of any leaks or errant 
pawns among the mortal diggers. Several Ventrue 
behind such operations claim to be protecting the 
Masquerade by funding the operations, ensuring that 
unwatched kine do not stumble upon some secret 
they should not know. There may be some truth to 
this claim, but the real reason remains a burning 
desire to accrue dignitas and show up one’s clanmates.


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
23
The Nights of Fire
Almost every clan found itself caught unawares 
when the Inquisition came. The Ventrue were hit as 
hard as any, arguably more so than some because of their 
high profile. Thousands of Kindred of all ranks and sta-
tions met the Final Death during the Church-sponsored 
conflagration that swept through Europe in the 13th 
century. As the crisis unfolded, the Ventrue began to 
suffer the consequences of their disorganization. Swept 
up in the fear of the witch-fires of the faithful, Ventrue 
elders took to sacrificing their childer to save their own 
unlives. Brood patrons left their progeny behind when 
they fled, hoping that the time spent destroying their 
hapless childer would delay the Inquisition from reach-
ing them. One French Ventrue even Embraced childer 
as she fled, throwing innocent mortals turned ignorant 
fledglings in the Church’s path.
In response, these embittered childer resisted in 
what became known as the Anarch Revolt, something 
totally unprecedented in Kindred history. Seemingly 
as one, the vampiric youth rose up against their sires. 
This threat came close to equaling that posed by the 
Inquisition itself, since the anarchs usually knew just 
where and how to find an elder Kindred. Already 
weakened by the internecine fighting of the Crusades, 
the ranks of Clan Ventrue dwindled at this point. The 
anarchs posed a threat that the Ventrue alone simply 
could not answer, and the Inquisition had proven 
remarkably difficult to sway.
The Camarilla 
and the Rebirth of 
Clan Ventrue
The answer to the anarchs’ challenge came, as one 
might expect, from a Ventrue. Hardestadt the Elder 
was a prominent member of the clan, made more so by 
the fact that he had managed to survive the Nights of 
Fire relatively unscathed while many of his elders had 
fallen. Like many Ventrue, Hardestadt had a fondness 
for history. Unlike many others at the time, he also 
had a vision for the future. He looked back on his own 
clan’s successes, how Artemis had united Kindred to 
fight against the Brujah of Athens and then again how 


Clanbook: Ventrue
24
classical inspiration. Hardestadt recreated the council 
of peers that Camilla had begun at the turn of the pre-
vious millennium. He and about two dozen respected 
or influential Ventrue agreed to the charter of the 
Council of Ephors to counsel individual Ventrue and 
to provide a forum for grievances (theoretically) free 
from regional bias. By agreement, these ephors, also 
called directors, would keep their identities a secret so 
that no one personality overshadowed the authority 
of the council as a whole.
Renaissance and Reformation
After establishing the Camarilla, Clan Ventrue 
experienced a powerful resurgence that began in the 
16th century, and a whole new world of possibilities 
opened up before them. With most of the anarchs 
subsumed into the Camarilla, the Ventrue-led sect 
had the muscle to fight the Sabbat at every turn and 
reassert its firm presence in Western Europe, which 
was the place to be at the dawn of the Renaissance, 
as it turned out.
While humanity rediscovered things Kindred had 
never forgotten, the Ventrue tested their re-established 
might. Under the self-sacrificing guidance of individual 
Ventrue and notable Toreador, Malkavians, Tremere 
and Brujah, the Camarilla prospered, ensuring a peace-
ful (or at least safe) environment for the Ventrue to 
exploit their new potential. Wisely fearing humanity 
in the wake of the Inquisition, most Kindred still clung 
rigorously to the Masquerade (just as the Ventrue 
wished) and withdrew from direct interference in 
mortal affairs. The Ventrue, however, plunged ahead, 
although in much more subtle ways than they had used 
during the Long Night.
It was Robert Kross, a German-born childe of the 
Inquisition years, who first saw the potential return 
on investments in the back end of new industries 
and ventures. An aide to Hardestadt and one of the 
first archons of the Camarilla, Kross had traveled 
throughout Europe as part of Justicar Democritus’ 
retinue. He settled in Holland eventually, where he 
became a silent partner in a number of “exploratory” 
ventures. Within a few decades, Kross and his mortal 
partners were making vast sums from trade with the Far 
East. Meanwhile, Kross’ childe, Juan-Miguel Ramirez, 
repeated his sire’s successes in Spain, an investment 
that eventually paid off in literally tons of gold diverted 
from the Spanish Empire.
All across Europe, the Ventrue clan led the way in 
investing in and exploiting trade with the New World 
and Asia. Although mortals did most of the real work 
and the Ventrue themselves seldom traveled to their 
Lasombra Revisionism
Ventrue historians have not always held a nega-
tive view of the Lasombra. In fact, until the formation 
of the Sabbat, the Ventrue had little to say about the 
clan for good or ill. Only in the past five centuries or so 
have historians begun to “find” evidence of Lasombra 
perfidy through the ages. Now, many Ventrue — even 
those old enough to know better or young enough to 
be otherwise apathetic — believe that the Lasombra 
have been a constant thorn in the Ventrue’s side ever 
since the nights of the First City. 
In fact, despite being competitors for eons, the 
Ventrue and Lasombra did not come into outright, 
clanwide conflict until the formation of the Sab-
bat. Since then, both sides have developed rather 
radical views of one another. The Ventrue see their 
shadowy kinfolk as obsessively jealous, consumed 
with a desire to replace Caine’s chosen clan as 
leaders of the Kindred. As far as many Ventrue are 
concerned, the entire Sabbat and all the conflicts 
that have resulted are a personal attack upon them 
by the Lasombra.
The reality of the situation is that the Ventrue 
collective ego cannot stand the fact that the Lasom-
bra do not acknowledge the genius of their creation: 
the Camarilla. Moreover, the idea that the “distant 
second” clan would dare to oppose Ventrue domain 
in politics, money and other areas of mortal influence 
galls the Blue Bloods. What right do the Lasombra 
have to claim such authority for themselves? More-
over, how coarse are they in their methods? The 
brutal, Masquerade-endangering Sabbat is a threat 
to all Kindred. How could any would-be leaders risk 
another Inquisition willfully? Many Ventrue feel that 
jealousy has driven the Lasombra mad, and that the 
Lasombra are best destroyed like rabid beasts if they 
cannot be brought to heel.
Camilla and Lysander had entreated many clans and 
Kindred to destroy Carthage. Here again, the young 
and radical seemed bent on threatening the established 
Kindred. Unity was the answer Hardestadt gave.
The Camarilla’s creation in 1450 and its history 
are well known. What few realize, however, is that 
Hardestadt took this opportunity to centralize the 
Ventrue clan as well. Some say that Lysander himself 
helped guide Hardestadt for this coup, although no 
one can confirm reports of sightings of the ancient 
warrior then or since. Hardestadt must have had him 
and Camilla in mind, though, since the Ventrue hi-
erarchy he proposed showed more than a few signs of 


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
25
foreign holdings, the Kindred’s coffers swelled beyond 
imagining. It was at this time that the clan earned its 
much-deserved reputation as the wealthiest clan in 
the world. The proceeds from those original overseas 
investments still serve as the basis of many European 
elders’ wealth in the modern nights.
To the Ventrue’s chagrin, however, this newfound 
wealth served to reinforce the schism between the clan 
and their antitribu of the Sabbat. While the Ventrue 
anarchs had been only a minority of the Kindred 
involved in the revolt, they certainly did not lack in 
passion. Even before the formation of the Camarilla 
proper, many Ventrue dissidents resented the direction 
many clan members had taken. These young Ventrue 
thought that their elders had grown rich and com-
placent. Instead of their noble legacy of nights past, 
modern Ventrue had chosen creature comforts. In the 
eyes of the Ventrue anarchs, the elders were no longer 
an aristocracy but a merchant class.
Elders and more conservative Ventrue, of course, 
argued that money was simply a means to maintain 
their leadership. The nights of feudalism were waning, 
they opined. Divine Right was fallible, and the true 
path to power lay in the new economy.
The antitribu, though, refused to relax their 
position. In their opinion, the mainstream Ventrue 
had simply taken the path of less resistance rather 
than the one that had built their august reputation 
throughout history. From the first nights of the Ca-
marilla to the Final Nights, the antitribu have turned 
their backs on their parent clan like no other. Theirs 
is not a difference based solely on the tenets of the 
Sabbat, but a true divorce of philosophy. Theirs is 
also a rivalry of fierceness matched in vehemence by 
few other Cainites.
Revolutionary Fervor
Even as war after war tore its way across Europe, 
throwing governments into chaos and immersing the 
land in bloodshed the likes of which it hadn’t seen 
in centuries, the Ventrue (and Kindred in general) 
persevered. They had learned not to attach themselves 
to any particular mortal king, but rather to the very 
institutions of government and wealth. Powers and 
potentates came and went, but the Ventrue presence 
remained immutable. That is, until the government 
itself fell.
The Ventrue had been slow to follow up their 
colonial investments personally, especially in the New 
World. While Ventrue backers grew wealthy through 
their British “partners,” the Sabbat busied themselves 
by establishing havens in every major colony along 
the North American eastern seaboard. Young Ventrue 
and other Camarilla Kindred looking for opportuni-
ties did travel to the New World, but not in numbers 
comparable to the Lasombra, Tzimisce and other 
Sabbat-aligned Cainites. 
Therefore, the Ventrue were poorly prepared when 
the American Revolution came. The Sabbat used the 
mortal revolt to their advantage, sinking their claws 
into the newly established nation from the beginning. 
Several Ventrue princes — or “princelings” as the elders 
in Europe called them — fell to the Sabbat. The War 
of 1812 offered the Sabbat a platform to strike again, 
which they did, although with less effectiveness than 
they might have wished. It soon became clear that these 
new United States would become the battleground for 
the two sects for many years to come. 
Over the next 50 years, the Sabbat continued to 
make slow but steady forays into the United States, 
using their British-Canadian influences to help bolster 
their position. As often as not, however, they crippled 
themselves with infighting and treachery that cagey 
Ventrue were able to exploit by moving into a domain 
and claiming power in the vacuum left by bickering 
packs. Losing ground in the East, these Blue Bloods 
concentrated their efforts in the burgeoning states 
of the central and western regions; places the Sab-
bat had not yet infested fully. Chicago, Saint Louis, 
Kansas City, Denver, Los Angeles (for a time) and 
San Francisco all became important Camarilla and 
Ventrue domains.
The Ventrue had never really paid much atten-
tion to the issue of slavery. In Europe, it was simply 
unacceptable among mortals and not particularly cost-
effective. As far as many Ventrue were concerned, all 
mortals were slaves of one sort or another. They had 
no real qualms about humans enslaving each other. 
Indeed, some Ventrue felt that the institution made 
a great deal of sense. When war broke out over the is-
sue — that and “states’ rights” — the Ventrue took no 
formal stance on either side. What they did was seize 
the opportunity to strike at the enemy while humans 
waged the bloodiest war in history right in the middle 
of Sabbat territory.
The Ventrue used what little influence they had in 
this emotionally charged war to take advantage where 
they could find it. Coteries of Ventrue-led “raiders” 
nipped at the heels of both sides of the conflict, sweep-
ing into cities that an army burned and driving out 
any Sabbat who remained. During Sherman’s famous 
march through Georgia, Ventrue and their Camarilla 
allies trailed close behind and managed to claim new 
domains in Atlanta, Savannah and several other cit-


Clanbook: Ventrue
26
ies. Richmond, Charleston and other Southern cities 
soon followed. Although by no means defeated, the 
Sabbat cause had been set back in the United States, 
a condition that would characterize their Great Jyhad 
for decades to come. 
Mortal Wars
Men, much like Kindred, have a passion for 
conflict. They fight one another constantly, often 
over seemingly trivial (at least in retrospect) matters 
such as transubstantiation versus consubstantiation. 
These wars tend to take place with or without 
Kindred involvement. Over the years, Kindred 
have taken credit for a great many things, and the 
Ventrue in particular have a penchant for laying 
claim to certain earth-shaking events. In truth, 
most vampires attach themselves to a conflict 
only when men fight on a grand scale. Only the 
craftiest elder or Methuselah can cause a war sur-
reptitiously, but any Kindred can wait like a vulture 
to reap the spoils.
In ancient times, when Sparta and Athens 
or Rome and Carthage fought, the Ventrue could 
rightly claim to have had a hand in such matters. 
Kindred wielded more direct influence in those 
nights, chiefly because the populations of these 
great empires paled in comparison to the modern 
age. Even then, the humans were usually equal 
partners in any confrontation. One Kindred, no 
matter how powerful, is unlikely to cause an entire 
nation to go to war. Instead, the Ventrue have 
learned to turn war to their advantage. The Romans 
and Carthaginians vied for power and influence 
within the Mediterranean, providing the perfect 
cover for the Ventrue and their allies to strike at 
the Brujah stronghold.
Warfare has always brought out the most dan-
gerous aspects of humanity. Masses of troops stand 
side-by-side, ready to bring death or die trying. It is 
a dangerous time for anyone, even a Kindred, to be 
trapped in the crossfire. As modern armies number 
in the millions, the force unleashed in such a conflict 
is well beyond the means of any single Kindred or 
clan to control. In a time when explosives level 
whole cities (and the Kindred havens therein), tank 
divisions grind the landscape to dust and airplanes 
drop death from miles up in the sky, wise Kindred 
duck their heads and seek cover. Those few who dare 
to drive a people to war consciously must exercise 
extreme caution. Once the conflict begins, it takes 
on an uncontrollable life of its own.


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
27
Europe Ascendant
The 19th century was another golden era for the 
Ventrue, reminiscent of the first three centuries A.D. 
when Rome reigned supreme. After the all-consuming 
Napoleonic wars that opened the century, Britain 
emerged as the largest power in the continent and 
eventually the world. Even with the loss of influence 
in America and the problems in France, Clan Ventrue 
found itself positioned perfectly to cultivate influence in 
every part of the world. The British Ventrue, under the 
“prince,” Queen Anne of London, made new fortunes 
many times over and spread their web of contacts and 
childer to Africa, India and Asia.
To this night, at least one Ventrue still claims 
domain established during this century in such Kindred-
hostile locales as South Africa, several major cities in 
India, Hong Kong, Macao and the Holy Land. Like-
wise, they followed the British army into the Middle 
East, establishing an early presence in the region that 
would translate into important investments in the oil 
industry. By the end of the century, Ventrue around 
the world could claim to be part of the greatest empire 
Kindred and kine had ever known.
The Ventrue position in Britain also put them in a 
prime position to take advantage of England’s other great 
19th-century triumph: the Industrial Revolution. Ventrue 
money played a significant role in the nation’s industrial-
ization. As far as the Ventrue were concerned, the more 
mortals in cities the better, especially if they could profit 
from said mortals financially. The Ventrue scarcely needed 
to do anything but invest wisely and watch the money pour 
in. They neutralized the few Sabbat and anarch forays into 
the burgeoning labor movements quickly, usually by paying 
off the mortal labor leaders, cracking down on the workers 
and utterly destroying the offending Kindred.
After the models established by Robert Kross, Hard-
estadt and other prominent Teutonic Ventrue, members 
of the clan in Germany took advantage of the growing 
industrial movement and nationalist sentiment to help 
unify their homeland under one rule. Chancellor Bismarck 
did most of the work on his own, never knowing that 
guardian Ventrue had to intercede to save his life more 
than half-a-dozen times when backward-thinking Kindred 
and meddlesome Sabbat tried to eliminate him. By the 
end of the century, Germany was a growing power, with 
the Ventrue firmly ensconced therein.
From Torpor Returned
Whatever aspect of vampire physiology it is that 
drives Kindred into and out of torpor, it can be decid-
edly disastrous, especially on the political front. From 
time to time, a powerful Ventrue slips into the long 
sleep, leaving behind a monetary and political empire 
that needs tending or (more often) suffers dissection 
by his contemporaries and rivals. When the Kindred 
rises once more, he naturally craves whatever it is he 
has missed. In most clans, Kindred accept that torpor 
has its price. In Clan Ventrue, however, a period in 
torpor does not revoke a Kindred’s rights or, more 
importantly, his rank. Therefore, a highly respected 
Ventrue can often return after hundreds of years and 
expect his position to be waiting for him, preserved 
by acknowledgement of his dignitas.
According to rumor, the most recent clan elder to 
rise again is Philippe de Margaux, a French Ventrue 
who last succumbed to torpor in the late 18th century. 
Embraced in A.D. 894, Philippe has accumulated a 
great deal of dignitas, holding the title of prince on 
two separate occasions and as a Ventrue archon 
for nearly three decades. Within the clan, he has 
achieved the title of strategos (the second-highest 
accolade the clan recognizes). Before he disappeared 
mysteriously in 1791, he was a strong candidate for 
justicar. Thinking he was dead at the hands of the 
Sabbat (who claimed credit for his Final Death), 
the Ventrue forgot about Philippe promptly, right 
up until the moment he walked into a convocation 
of the Directorate in Lyons.
As an established strategos, Philippe expects cer-
tain rights and privileges from his peers and lessers. 
Unfortunately for him, the world has no place for him 
right now. His resources long ago plundered by fellow 
Ventrue and other Kindred, thrown into a time he 
scarcely understands, Philippe now struggles just to 
come to grips with how much times have changed. 
Various factions now vie for Philippe’s support, not 
because of his influence but because of the rank and 
dignitas attached to his name. Each faction hopes to 
use his reputation to further its own agendas. 
Of course, Philippe realizes exactly what is taking 
place, and he plays the factions against one another, 
promising endorsement for favors or providing 
introductions for resources for the time being until 
he can establish a new foundation for himself. He 
has begun to attract a following of talented young 
Ventrue who see a chance to work with a clan great 
who can use a hand — and repay their loyalty later. 
He, in turn, hopes to use their knowledge of the 
present to restore the glories and honors of his past.


Clanbook: Ventrue
28
As the 20th century turned, the Ventrue looked 
ahead to a prosperous future. Europe seemed more se-
cure than ever. They had surpassed or achieved equal 
footing with the Sabbat in America, and their power 
seemed on the rise. With continued support from the 
old world, victory there seemed inevitable. Then came 
the rest of the 20th century, and everything changed.
Two Great Wars
World War One came as an utter surprise for all 
involved, including the Ventrue. As assassination 
mushroomed into world war, the Kindred of Europe 
— particularly the Ventrue — decided to secure their 
positions, batten down the hatches and ride out the storm.
The new bloodiest war in history exceeded all expec-
tations and changed the face of Europe and the world. 
Germany was left a wreck, and much of Eastern 
Europe had been redefined beyond recognition. 
The Ventrue stayed well away from the trenches, 
but their industrial concerns suffered greatly dur-
ing the war. Politically, Europe was in chaos, and 
many Ventrue had to cultivate new contacts among 
the post-war governments. When the Depression 
settled in a dozen years later, things only got worse. 
A number of prominent Ventrue, including Robert 
Kross, left the Old World for the United States, 
hoping to take advantage of the situation to carve 
out new territories and shore up the Camarilla’s 
position against the Sabbat. Besides, the state of 
their old homes had become too depressing to 
contemplate.
The rise of fascism in Germany and Italy gave 
hope to many of the Ventrue who remained. 
In Italy — a nation that had seemingly known 
nothing but chaos and internal political strife 
for centuries — the Ventrue fell in behind 
Mussolini and bought into the propaganda 
that he planned to restore Italy to the glory 
of ancient Rome. Sweeter words were never 
heard by Ventrue ears. Important clan members 
like Juan-Miguel Ramirez in Spain and Cattarina de 
Volo in Italy stepped right in line behind the fascist 
parties and seized the opportunity to rebuild the fortunes 
and influence they had lost during the war.
In Germany, matters were more complicated. 
Many Ventrue had strong antipathy toward the Nazi 
party, chiefly because of its professed “socialist” and 
“populist” roots. Too many aspects of Hitler’s program 
reminded the old Ventrue of the Inquisition. Coupled 
with Hitler’s known interest in the occult, the elders 
saw a very real danger in a populist movement steeped 
in mysticism. If the Nazi party could believe Jews were 


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
29
it past the Sabbat to nuke a powerful Camarilla domain 
like London or Chicago just to strike at the sect.
Although no one has any evidence of Sabbat posses-
sion of (or even interest in) nuclear weapons, the Ventrue 
Directorate has sprung into action. It has appointed several 
watchers devoted to monitoring the spread of nuclear 
weapons and taking whatever means are necessary to 
control arms proliferation. With methods much more 
direct and deadly than those employed by the United 
Nations, Ventrue agents have eliminated several promi-
nent black-market arms dealers who professed access to 
nuclear weapons. Then, in typical Ventrue fashion, they 
absorbed the dead agents’ business into their own hold-
ings. The watchers, who make up an informal clique with 
no official title, continue to operate tonight, although it 
is transforming more and more into a business venture 
rather than an anti-proliferation group.
The Cold War
The past 50 years have seen Clan Ventrue reassert 
itself once more after a half-century of troubles and 
decline. The clan thrived during the four-decade cold 
war, taking full advantage of the paranoia on both 
sides to make massive profits and sink its tendrils into 
the growing government bureaucracies that came to 
dominate industrialized governments. Having learned 
a valuable lesson from the debacle of the Crusades, 
savvy Ventrue have determined to hold their resources 
together despite the mortal conflict raging around them. 
Ventrue on both sides of the Iron Curtain worked in 
concert, watching their respective “governments” act 
against one another for the greatest advantage.
Differences arose between the two sides, however. 
Eastern Ventrue invested their resources and time into 
the authoritarian governments of the Communist Bloc, 
but they often found themselves opposed by the power-
ful Russian Brujah. The Ventrue were particularly fond 
of the various incarnations of secret police that came 
into existence, finding them an excellent way to keep 
the kine in line and under supervision. In the West, 
the Ventrue concentrated on the recovering European 
industries, all but abandoning the last of their feudal 
and noble ties for big business and majority shares in 
multinational corporations. 
When the Cold War ended, the few former Com-
munist Bloc Ventrue who did manage to cultivate some 
degree of influence found themselves stripped of power 
just as the governments they supported had been. A 
decade later, these Ventrue are still trying to recover 
while Western Ventrue-owned companies step into 
the dismal economies and invest heavily in national 
infrastructures. As a result, a number of Ventrue in the 
responsible for all their evils, would it be such a step 
for them to believe that vampires had a role as well?
The younger Ventrue felt no such fear. They saw 
in Hitler what the Italian Ventrue saw in Mussolini: a 
new hope. The Nazis could restore order, rebuild the 
industries and armies, and keep the population in line. 
As it turned out, influencing Hitler was nigh impossible, 
chiefly because he was so well guarded and so paranoid 
of paranormal manipulation that no Kindred could get 
to him. Although many Ventrue benefited from and 
had local influence within the Nazi party, few had any 
say in its direction.
When war did come, it quickly threw all Europe 
back into chaos. The Ventrue peerage of ephors were 
caught on opposite sides of the war with competing 
interests. For five long years, it was pretty much every 
European Kindred for himself. Avoid the bombs, take 
what advantage you can and keep your head down was 
all the help the ephors could give their childer. Mean-
while, Ventrue in America cashed in on the suddenly 
booming military-industrial complex, and they never 
looked back. As with the mortal world, World War Two 
marked a continuing decline for Europe and a rise in 
American influence amongst the Ventrue.
The Nuclear Question
No single event has given both Kindred and kine more 
nightmares than the first atomic blast over Hiroshima. In 
fact, some might argue that the Kindred feared the event 
more than mortals. Mortals already knew that their lives 
could vanish in an instant. Now Kindred faced the fact 
that humanity could, with the touch of a button, wipe 
whole cities off the map, Kindred and all. 
The Ventrue, with their high-level government and 
military interests, have kept a close watch on the nuclear 
situation. Although a radical faction of the clan proposed 
various methods to acquire a bomb for themselves in the 
early ’60s, this plan was quickly abandoned as both danger-
ous an infeasible. No Kindred trusted any other, not even 
(or especially…) a fellow Ventrue, with such power. In 
the chill of the Cold War, the Ventrue shifted their policy 
toward one of containment. Such weapons belonged in 
the hands of responsible mortal government and out of 
the spheres of influence of unpredictable groups like the 
anarchs and — nightmare of nightmares — the Sabbat.
The fear of a nuclear-capable Sabbat towers over 
some within the clan. The Soviet Union’s collapse, the 
spread of nuclear technology and black-market weap-
ons to rogue nations like Iraq, Iran and North Korea, 
and the dangerously lax security surrounding certain 
nuclear materials all combine to form the stuff of the 
Camarilla’s worst nightmares. Few Ventrue would put 


Clanbook: Ventrue
30
East — particularly in Russia, Poland, Bulgaria and the 
Ukraine — have turned to organized crime as a new 
field of influence. There, they run straight into Brujah 
interests, and the two clans have become engaged in 
their own mob war over the issue.
In America, the Ventrue enjoyed a particularly profit-
able post-war era. The rampant fear of communism worked 
in the clan’s favor. They could and did oust uncooperative 
or unwanted mortals from government easily with simple 
innuendo and a few loaded suggestions about the person’s 
loyalties. The ’50s served the clan particularly well, helping 
the Ventrue establish a firm base from which to withstand 
the trials that were to come.
Once again, the Ventrue and Camarilla found 
themselves caught between two simultaneous threats. 
The anarchs rose in great numbers on the West Coast, 
effectively negating any claim of Camarilla domain in 
Southern California. Timely action taken by Ventrue 
leaders such as Lodin and Robert Kross helped keep the 
anarch plague from spreading too far. This rise marked 
the first successful anarch revolt, although it remains 
to be seen how long the anarchs can hold on to what 
they’ve taken. That claim is certainly threatened in the 
modern nights, considering the swelling presence of the 
Cathayan menace in the crumbling “Anarch Free State.”
On the Canadian border and to the south in Mexico, 
the Sabbat continue to present a more serious threat. It 
galls the Ventrue to no end that the Sabbat managed to 
usurp Camarilla domains in most of the lucrative cities 
of the American East, particularly in New England and 
the Mid-Atlantic states. The clan blames decentralization 
within the Camarilla and the continuing weakness shown 
in the face of Sabbat aggression for the losses — wouldn’t 
the struggle fare better with a (Ventrue) warlord? Recent 
Black Hand excursions into the South have only made 
matters worse. The Ventrue leadership in Europe has been 
slow to recognize the problem in the United States, but 
now the Ventrue leviathan shows signs of stirring, much 
to the concern of less authoritative clans.
A New Era
Clan Ventrue stands at a crossroads. With the 
Gangrel departure from the Camarilla, Hardestadt’s 
dream has begun to fray at the seams. The Sabbat ap-
pears stronger than ever before, or at least as strong as 
it has been for many centuries. Clan Ventrue has always 
provided leadership for the Camarilla, but some say that 
perhaps it is time to start acting unilaterally, like true 
leaders and princes in the original sense of the word. Let 
the other clans follow if they 
will. They are welcome to 
come along, but the time 
for waiting has passed. 


Chapter One: The Kings of the Kindred
31
With each passing month, this sentiment gains stronger 
support from the American Ventrue — many of whom 
are young neofeudalists just having their first taste of 
power. The more established European Ventrue remain 
unwilling to commit themselves to such a rash course 
of action, or unwilling to consider that it has ever been 
anything but. The Camarilla has worked well for over 
five centuries, and they think it still has life left in it 
until the night the heretics’ Gehenna comes.
Other Ventrue, both elders and neonates, feel that 
the clan suffers from a lack of strong leadership. The 
secretive Directorate does little but foment unrest among 
the ranks to justify itself and look to its own interests. 
In response to this claim, a number of prominent elder 
Kindred, including Robert Kross and several others, 
have set about searching for the most famous surviv-
ing leaders the clan has known: Camilla and Lysander. 
Once found and revived, either one of these powerful 
Kindred could change the clan’s entire direction. Of 
course, some claim that both of them are quite awake, 
that they actually sit on the Directorate this very night. 
Although there is no proof one way or the other, one 
imagines that they would reveal themselves in a time 
of crisis, something they haven’t done yet.
Then also are the doves, Ventrue who want to make 
some sort of peace with the Sabbat. They feel that this 
ongoing war is utterly senseless and that the two sects are 
not as diametrically opposed as they seem. For all their 
professed disdain for the Masquerade, Sabbat still do not 
wander the streets openly, proclaiming their nature. For 
all their ties to humanity, the Camarilla Kindred are still 
monsters that feed upon kine. Indeed, even though Clan 
Ventrue stands as the leader against Sabbat aggression, it 
is the clan most similar to the Sabbat’s own leaders in at-
titude and demeanor. Ventrue seldom show anything but 
disdain for humans as people — the masses are far more 
vital than the individuals, while those same individuals 
have value as sustenance and tools. These Kindred argue 
that perhaps the time has come to reach an accord.
For now, the hawks still far outnumber the doves. 
Although some logic might lie behind the doves’ argu-
ments, logic rarely plays a significant role in Kindred 
relations. The Ventrue and Lasombra — and the Ca-
marilla and Sabbat, by extension — simply hate each 
other too much for true peace ever to come about. Some 
say that the only thing that can ever unite the two sects 
is a common threat, such as the much-anticipated (but 
never seen) return of the Antediluvians, an event that 
seems most unlikely to many Ventrue. Why worry about 
something that might never happen, when the enemy 
is already before them?
It will be an important century for the Ventrue. 
They still wield great temporal power and influence, 
arguably more than any other single Kindred clan. But 
that power is waning; the base is crumbling. Unless the 
stagnant leadership finds a way to reinvigorate itself and 
the Ventrue as a whole, the decline could well become 
unstoppable as government and economics make the 
transition to the global scale. History has shown, though, 
that the Ventrue do bounce back, sometimes coming 
through when no one else expects it. Why? Because un-
like other clans that claim to be, the Ventrue truly are 
wholly ruthless, cold and calculating. They are willing to 
do whatever and betray whomever it takes for them to 
survive. It is their heritage, their tradition, their history.
And the Ventrue do so love their history.
The New New Thing
Long-memoried and tradition-bound, the Ven-
true often have a hard time keeping up with the latest 
technological developments. In the last hundred 150 
years, it has become almost impossible. A Ventrue who 
went into torpor in 2100 B.C. and woke up in A.D. 
1200 would find the world different, but not shockingly 
so. One who went to sleep in A.D. 1600 and woke up 
only 400 years later can scarcely believe his eyes. Even 
Ventrue who rose every night during the transition 
have a hard time dealing with the changes
The clan as a whole has yet to step fully into the 
information age. As tradition demands, important 
meetings should take place face to face. Although 
high-speed travel makes arranging such meetings easier 
than it once was, scions of the clan and the Directorate 
must still come together from many disparate lands in 
order to make a decision that a conference call could 
have settled in five minutes. E-mail and even overnight 
express remain mysterious, almost supernatural forces 
to most elder Ventrue.
Instead of even bothering to try to understand the 
new technology, Ventrue have come to rely on their 
progeny to do it for them. Like kings giving orders to 
their court magicians, the elders simply state what 
they want done to the technology-minded youth, 
servants and ghouls, and they hope it happens. This 
role naturally gives the in-the-know Kindred a sizable 
advantage and tremendous influence for their age. In 
some cases, computer-savvy neonates have access to 
clan information that Kindred centuries older than 
them do not know. Still, the clan is far from computer-
ized, and many business records, correspondence and 
orders are still written on paper. Thus far, it has not 
proved too egregious a disadvantage for the clan, but 
as the elders lag ever more behind the times, their 
position becomes more tenuous.


Clanbook: Ventrue
32


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
33
‘My dear sir,’ he said. ‘I must beg you to excuse me for my 
discourtesy. The members of my family have always been peculiarly 
affected by the sight of blood. Call it an idiosyncrasy if you like, 
but it does at times make us behave like wild animals. I am grieved 
to have so far forgotten my manners as to behave in such a strange 
way before a guest. I assure you that I have sought to conquer this 
failing, and for that reason I keep away from my fellow-men.’
— Frederick Cowles, “The Vampire of Kaldenstein”
Chapter Two: The 
King Is Dead, Long 
Live the King
Blood alone does not define a Ventrue. While all 
Ventrue might stem from the same third-generation 
progenitor, this fact does not make a Kindred truly 
Ventrue in and of itself. One need only look to the de-
spised antitribu to see the truth of this statement. Being 
truly Ventrue is a mode of thought, a way of seeing the 
world and even an unlifestyle. In order to be truly one 
of the clan, one must act the part.
As members of a complicated clan with serious, in-
tricate and prized traditions, the Ventrue have a number 
of distinct mores and attitudes that define them. These 
ideals comprise a world-view that many of the clan’s 
members share. Even those who go against the mold 
acknowledge these ideals by flouting them. While not 
every Kindred shares all of these beliefs, almost every 
clan member is aware of them, and each probably holds 
many of them dear to her own still heart. Even when 
one disagrees with a particular philosophical position, 
she often plays along, for these views define the Ventrue 
and dictate their place and purpose in Kindred society 
— the very society they lead perforce.
Noblesse Oblige
As the original leaders among the third and successive 
generations, many Ventrue feel that they have ample cause, 
precedent and justification to lead the other clans (if not 
rule them outright, in some cases). Their reasoning probably 
stems from the same justification European kings used to 
establish their claim to power at one time: divine right. In 
short, the argument goes thus: Through His vessel, Caine, 
God chose us to lead the Kindred; therefore, we should. 
If Caine hadn’t chosen us, we wouldn’t be in charge. The 
clan’s natural abilities to lead, sway and just plain control 
others only serve to lend credence to their claims. Caine 
created them to lead his children, therefore, that is what 
they must — not should, but must — do.
With divine right comes divine responsibility. The 
Ventrue do not exist to rule over the other Kindred as 


Clanbook: Ventrue
34
masters rule over slaves. Far from it. Caine bestowed their 
many gifts upon them in order to ensure that his other 
childer had strong, able-minded leadership in times of 
trouble. Ventrue often refer to themselves as “shepherds” 
or “stewards” of their fellow Kindred. Many borrow another 
phrase from the days when nobles ruled: noblesse oblige.
Simply put, this French phrase means that the Ventrue 
feel obligated to work on behalf of their fellow Kindred for 
the betterment of all the race of Caine. Having been given 
such great power, position and natural ability, it is their duty 
to pay society back. The Ventrue throw themselves into 
unlives of service to the greater cause, which means the 
Camarilla in the modern nights. As the most influential 
clan within the sect, the entire movement’s existence relies 
on the Ventrue themselves remaining strong. Therefore, 
accruing more power and influence to themselves is not so 
much a selfish act as a noble one. Their strength benefits 
all si— five other clans as well.
Of course, Ventrue feel absolutely no obligation toward 
those who spurn their help. The clans of the Sabbat gave 
up any rights to call upon the Ventrue for protection long 
ago. More recently, the Gangrel too have turned their backs 
on Caine’s chosen. As such, few Ventrue feel any sympathy 
for these bestial pariahs. The Gangrel made their choice, 
and they must exist with the consequences. This same 
principle holds true for individual Kindred as well. When 
someone breaks openly from the Camarilla — as anarchs 
often claim to have done — most Ventrue disregard any 
obligation to them as well, unless they can earn something 
from it. Obligation is a two-way street after all.
Dignitas
For many Ventrue, the clan first realized the role of 
leadership fully during the early nights of the Roman 
Republic. It’s no wonder, then, that they take many of 
their ideas and ideals from their venerable Latin forbears. 
At the Republic’s height, great men accomplished great 
deeds and built an empire that spanned farther than any 
empire in mortal or Cainite history had. They fought 
wars, engaged in fierce political battles and sacked cities 
for more than just the money or the power. They did it 
because their dignitas demanded it.
Dignitas is a hard word to define. It encompasses 
not only simple dignity, but also many of the Japanese 
ideals summarized in the word “face” (as in saving face). 
Dignitas is a person’s standing in society, a measure of 
his accomplishments, his social stature and his honor. 
For Rome’s patrician class, dignitas was nothing less than 
the true measure of a man’s self, of his worth as a person.
The Ventrue adopted — and, in turn, helped 
promote — the concept of dignitas with a vengeance. In 
one simple word, it encapsulated everything that they had 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
35
held sacred and important for millennia. The Ventrue see 
themselves as (and, in fact, they are) the patrician class 
of Kindred society — the nobles of good birth, breeding 
and behavior who must act with honor and be treated 
with dignity. For many Ventrue, as with the early Romans, 
dignitas is all.
As a clan member rises in prominence, his dignitas 
grows with him. It is the sum of his accomplishments to 
date. The battles won, offices held and alliances made all 
come together to increase a Ventrue’s dignitas. At the same 
time, conflicts lost, insults taken and failures recognized 
all serve to detract from his status. A Ventrue’s dignitas 
can fall just as it can rise. For many Ventrue, the fear and 
anger associated with losing face outstrip the fear of fire 
or Final Death. In such a history-minded clan, the loss of 
one’s life pales in comparison to the loss of one’s legacy.
Increasing one’s dignitas is the true goal that most 
Ventrue spend their nights pursuing relentlessly. Talk of 
“noble obligations” and preserving the Camarilla sound 
good, and they are important in theory, but many Ventrue 
seek to aggrandize themselves on a personal level first 
and foremost. The Ventrue do not denigrate the concept 
with any sure way of calculating dignitas; they observe no 
“dignitas points” or awards system. It is intangible, like 
reputation or fame. Dignitas grows not only with success 
but with achieving that success in the right and proper 
way. A Kindred who reaches new heights of political in-
fluence through the standard course accrues more dignitas 
than one who does so at the expense of other Ventrue, 
the reputation of the clan or simple decorum. Image, 
tradition and values play as much a role in determining 
dignitas as do money, influence and temporal power.
Aside from breaches of the Traditions, the clan knows 
few crimes greater than impugning another member’s 
dignitas groundlessly. Ventrue take assaults on their stature 
very seriously. Spreading rumors, taking credit for another’s 
work and insulting a Ventrue without just cause (publicly 
or privately) are just a few of the ways one can diminish 
dignitas. Doing so is a sure way to make an enemy for all of 
unlife, and it can indeed be cause for severe punishment or 
discipline. Centuries-long feuds continue tonight between 
elders who feel that some idle comment at a social gather-
ing in the 16th century threatened their dignitas. Although 
this example is extreme, it is indicative of a greater trend. 
In some cases, Ventrue have actually petitioned elders 
or princes for permission to destroy young Kindred who 
insulted them foolishly in some way.
Assistance
Perhaps no tradition sets the Ventrue more apart from 
other clans than their Ethic of Succor. While other clans, 
such as the Tremere, are closely knit and often support 
members, no clan has the same “no excuses, no excep-
tions” practice of coming to each other’s assistance in 
times of need. Many Blue Bloods credit this tradition as the 
foundation for the clan’s continuing strength. While they 
might fight and compete with one another, the Ventrue 
invariably rally and fight as one when the time comes and 
a crisis is upon them, whether they like it or not.
Observing the Ethic of Succor means ultimately 
extending a fellow Ventrue aid, should she ask it, re-
gardless of personal piques and desires. Actually doing 
so can, admittedly, be hard. Many Ventrue have learned 
how to argue successfully that strengthening their own 
position and eliminating or pushing aside a weaker rival 
are good for the Blue Blood in question, and that type 
of argument mirrors the Ventrue clan’s own position 
vis-a-vis the rest of the Camarilla. Semantics aside, no 
Ventrue can ever willingly and obviously harm another 
who requests hospitality under the ethic’s auspices, nor 
would most seek to. The penalties for such behavior are 
grave indeed, ranging from mere blackballing to oaths of 
vengeance. Moreover, when a Ventrue invokes succor, 
the member must answer and do good service. In return, 
he can expect her to do the same for him.
Respecting other Ventrue means not violating their 
territory, not competing with them in their established 
holdings and, most importantly, not impugning their 
dignitas. It also means that a Ventrue gives aid to a fellow 
when in need, no matter how damned inconvenient do-
ing so might prove to be. This tradition dates back to a 
time when Ventrue hoarded influence in Rome against 
all other clans. Although the Ventrue have five “cousin” 
clans to call upon tonight as well, they often choose to 
trust only themselves. When a Ventrue asks, you act.
The act of asking is where tradition comes in. Succor 
can take many forms, especially among Ventrue liberal 
enough to twist this tradition to their advantage: asking 
for help, asking for favors, asking for information, asking 
for a light. Any Ventrue can refuse any of these requests 
with legitimate impunity. In order to invoke the Ethic of 
Succor, a clan member must say specifically, “I implore 
your assistance, cousin,” or any one of a half dozen other 
recognized phrases. Honor and custom bind a Ventrue to 
help another when the request is phrased thus. However, 
the beggar had better have good cause. Sabbat had best be 
banging at the door or rivals staging a corporate takeover 
or else the Kindred seeking aid risks losing much dignitas 
in her peers’ eyes. Requesting aid in a true crisis carries no 
shame. Requesting aid out of fear or misapprehension does.
It happens occasionally that two or more Ventrue call 
upon their fellows for succor simultaneously. In such an 
instance, the eldest Kindred typically receives preference. If 
the aid-giver feels that he can spare the resources to help a 


Clanbook: Ventrue
36
younger member as well, he may divert some aid to his needy 
cousin. This circumstance occurs rarely. When a Ventrue 
calls for help, he is in serious need, and he has little time 
to think of others. An even more prominent or influential 
Ventrue can, however, choose whom he wishes to help. He 
might help the elder or, seeing that the elder has adequate 
resources of his own, he might turn to the neonate.
Failure to assist carries with it attendant losses in 
dignitas, status and influence. Moreover, should a Ventrue 
complain that another member ignored his plea for help, 
the aggrieved Kindred has the grounds for a formal com-
plaint. As with so much within the clan, the penalties for 
this crime vary according to the dignitas and importance 
of the complainant. A neonate who ignores the request 
of a powerful prince may well face a blood bond or even 
the Tradition of Destruction. A prince who ignores a 
neonate might have to pay a fine or grant the youth a 
boon, according to the Directorate’s findings. Still, these 
events are rare. Ventrue take great pride in helping one 
another. They not only feel that it sets them apart from 
and above the other clans, it also means that someone 
owes them a boon. For the Ventrue even more than the 
haughty Toreador, boons are better than gold.
Politeness
As the products of five millennia of noble upbringing, 
class and culture, the Ventrue place great importance on 
gentility. Ventrue etiquette can become quite complex, 
especially in Europe where deathless standards persist 
unto the modern nights. Things are often less formal in 
the New World, but only by comparison. Even the most 
casual of Old World cities usually seems stodgy and overly 
polite by modern standards.
For the Ventrue, politeness means more than just 
carrying on with traditional ways and means. It serves 
some very important functions, especially when it comes to 
making sure that individual clan members can overcome 
their petty personal differences and respect the social 
structure. By nature, Kindred are excitable creatures, prone 
to holding grudges and overreacting to insults. Add in the 
average Ventrue’s regard for his dignitas, and politeness 
becomes not only a matter of manners but a matter of 
survival. Interacting with one another in a sophisticated, 
polite and admittedly distant manner helps alleviate the 
threat of flaring tempers. Discourse becomes less visceral 
as it becomes slightly removed from reality. With layers of 
polite gossip and deferential tones separating two roiling 
egos, tensions become secondary to what is said and the 
manner in which each party communicates it.
Unless they have a close personal relationship, Ventrue 
almost always address one another in a formal manner, ei-
ther by title or surname as the occasion requires. One does 
not ask personal questions of another without being invited 
to do so. Polite conversation means no insults (veiled or 
open), no unsolicited criticisms of equals or superiors, and 
no speaking out of turn. Interrupting another Ventrue’s 
conversation is most inappropriate. Most conversations 
begin with idle talk intended to put both parties at ease. 
Usually such talk has to do with temporal business or social 
affairs — something everyone can speak about, but that 
usually does not carry too many emotional attachments. 
Overall Ventrue conversations tend to sound wordy but 
pleasant. Few dignified Ventrue raise their voices or ignore 
another’s words. Although she might be seething on the 
inside, a Ventrue of dignitas never shows it.
Control
The Beast: It lurks in every vampire’s cold heart, 
although the Ventrue are loath to admit it. Blue Bloods 
often tame their Beast with a savage passion and keep it 
in check as often as possible — indeed, even the most 
jaded elder probably still harbors some degree of humanitas, 
no matter how minuscule. Some haughty Ventrue even 
cease to acknowledge the inner monsters’ existence at all, 
claiming that it is a curse that afflicts only other, lesser 
bloodlines. Others admit to the uncontrollable urges but 
take pride in their ability to control them. Either way, all 
but the most callous Ventrue holds self-discipline in the 
highest regard. Self-control unlocks the door to success, 
setting the Blue Bloods apart from those who let their 
emotions rule them. Emotional control, along with all 
other traits discussed here, helps define the Ventrue.
Slipping into a frenzy obviously stands as the most 
extreme example of loss of control. Strangely enough, it 
is the one slip that Ventrue forgive most easily. However 
much they don’t want to admit it, all Kindred realize 
that the Beast lurks within each and every descendant of 
Caine. A vampire who frenzies has obviously passed the 
point of discretion. It is hoped that a Ventrue can control 
herself better than most under such circumstances, but 
these things do happen. As long as the out-of-control 
Kindred does no damage to the Masquerade or the well-
being of the greater race of Caine, all is usually forgiven.
Less forgivable are the lesser lapses, perhaps due to their 
more inconsequential nature. A Ventrue should control 
every other aspect of his emotions, or at least appear to do 
so. Anger should not turn into rage, affection into lust or 
curiosity into desire. Bouts of shouting, the raising of fists 
in anger, uncontrolled laughter or even — heaven forbid 
— bloody tears are all consider terribly graceless. One of 
good breeding, manners and lofty dignitas does not debase 
herself in this manner. It just isn’t done.
Aside from being unseemly, losing control usually leads 
to making mistakes, and the calculating Ventrue cannot 
abide avoidable mistakes. Leaders must, however, act when 
the challenge arises, sometimes without all the information 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
37
they need or desire. Certainly, no one makes perfect deci-
sions all the time. Mistakes under such circumstances do 
happen; a wrong decision made out of fear, hate, lust or even 
misplaced loyalty usually remains inexcusable, though. It is 
beneath a Ventrue’s dignitas to act in such a way. It violates 
her obligations to the rest of her clan and the Kindred to let 
such feelings interfere with her ability to lead by example.
Cruelty
For all their noble ideals about serving Kindred society 
as a whole and shepherding the Camarilla through the Final 
Nights, the Ventrue have a surprisingly nasty cruel streak. 
This fact stems mainly from the general Ventrue attitude 
that institutions and ideas are important while individuals 
(especially kine and non-Camarilla Kindred) are not so 
vital. Even Kindred of a Ventrue’s own lineage, especially 
younger vampires multiple generations removed, scarcely 
warrant sympathy or attention. While they still speak of 
their roles as stewards and noble leaders, the fact is that, 
when it comes down to it, most Ventrue could not possibly 
care less about the fate of any given individuals aside from 
themselves. In fact, many feel the same way toward some 
of their own childer. As long as the Camarilla prospers (in 
the individual Ventrue’s estimation), what does it matter 
if a few troublesome cousins perish in the process?
Of course, wise Kindred keep these less than 
respectful attitudes to themselves. Still, this obvious 
hypocrisy serves to rally many other Kindred against 
overly headstrong Ventrue.
When dealing with Kindred society, in which destroy-
ing a fellow vampire just isn’t done without permission, 
this cruelty manifests itself politically or socially. Ventrue 
know no bounds when it comes to making and breaking 
deals. Their polite demeanor, archaic traditions and noble 
manner all belie the simple fact that they are willing to 
do anything for their own benefit — which they defend 
as the benefit of all Kindred — as long as they think 
that the goal is worthwhile. That is to say, most Ventrue 
have the sense not to eradicate contacts and friendships 
or take great risks for small gains. It’s better to lose and 
survive to fight another night with your resources intact. 
However, when a Ventrue sees potential profit too choice 
to ignore, he holds nothing back.
Ventrue cannot help but be somewhat circumspect 
when they deal with other Kindred; by their own ethics 
every vampire has some basic rights to existence and 
even domain. Kine, however, have no such protections 
at all. For most, humans are like worker ants or peas-
ants as in nights long past. Humans are necessary, but 
they are interchangeable and readily disposable. One 
can destroy a family’s means of support just to stymie a 
rival’s efforts and not think twice about it. The order to 
kill a troublesome union boss or frame a politician for 


Clanbook: Ventrue
38
blackmail purposes might come as easily as an instruction 
to one’s valet to press the gray suit for tomorrow night. 
Even the somewhat more personal process of perusing a 
mortal’s mind for information and then manipulating the 
memories thereafter carries no emotional stigma for the 
Ventrue. As individuals, these kine matter not a whit.
It’s not that the Ventrue hate humans, or even that 
they view humans as somehow lower on the food chain and 
therefore worth killing and torturing, as the Sabbat do. To 
the Ventrue, humans just aren’t worth consideration as any-
thing less than a great collective. Humanity brought about 
the Inquisition, a single human did not, or so goes another 
Ventrue maxim. Even though they themselves were once 
just like these humans, the Ventrue forget that more quickly 
than most. Unless they see some special spark in a person 
that makes him a potential resource or even possible ghoul 
or childe, humans mean little. Exploit them, abuse them, 
or just plain kill them — as long as the Masquerade remains 
intact and unthreatened, do what thou wilt with them.
Prejudice
According to their own oral history and annals, the 
Ventrue have Embraced only those “worthy” of the honor. 
Nobles, religious leaders and great military men have all 
found their way into Clan Ventrue over the centuries. 
The Ventrue have high standards for admittance into 
their ultra-exclusive club of undead. They want those ac-
customed to wielding influence and authority, those for 
whom command is second nature. In other words, they 
want men for the most part.
While gender plays no noticeable role in a Kindred 
once Embraced (as the race of Caine is egalitarian if 
not equitable), it has traditionally mattered a great deal 
before that fateful night. Women did not command the 
kind of influence that men had in Western society for not 
just centuries, but millennia. Exceptions arose, of course, 
but mostly of the sort that prove the rule. Likewise, some 
very ancient and potent female Kindred have earned clan 
honors. However, the number of men far outweighs the 
number of women, especially among the older Kindred 
— even in the modern nights. Clan Ventrue is very much 
an aged and malevolent “boy’s club.”
The ethnic makeup of New World Ventrue is pre-
dominantly Caucasian, with ratios of Nubian, Asian or 
Hispanic stock similar to those in the mortal world. In 
less cosmopolitan parts of the world, ethnic diversity 
is even less prevalent.
Outsiders often charge the Ventrue with thinking and 
acting old-fashioned. They allege that the clan is stuck 
in its ways and not open to adjustment. While this claim 
isn’t as true as the outsiders would like to believe, it isn’t 
entirely false either. These nights, most Ventrue are as 
color- and gender-aware as the society in which they dwell. 
They would not pause to Embrace an African-American 
or woman with great potential. Still, such is not the case 
for some Ventrue. Brought up in another time to believe 
in their inherent superiority, even death has not eradicated 
fully such petty concerns of flesh tone and genitalia. These 
old-guard Ventrue still look down on women, continue to 
deny minorities advancement and generally hold the clan 
back because of their anachronistic prejudices.
Unfortunately, Kindred who hold positions of great 
power, especially in established regions of Europe and 
the Middle East, have been influential for centuries with 
only minor interruption. Ancient prejudices still thrive 
in these domains. A very few still have edicts forbidding 
the Embrace of certain types of kine, but the progressive 
thinkers among the Ventrue frown on this less enlightened 
view. As a result, most have dropped the restrictions (at 
least publicly). Even so, Kindred of “unfortunate heritage” 
have a hard time dealing with their prejudiced elders. If 
the minority is not even of Clan Ventrue, bigoted elders 
often snub them completely. Ventrue warrant a little more 
respect because dignitas demands it, but few mistake the 
nastiness that lies behind a patronizing smile.
Clan Organization
Of late, many have compared the Ventrue clan’s 
organization to a corporation. While this simile seems 
(and in some ways is) appropriate, it is largely inac-
curate. The clan’s current hierarchical arrangement 
predates the modern corporation by many centuries, 
and it is rather a product of the clan’s classical roots. In 
Europe, many clans still use the Greek and Latin names 
that have demarcated Ventrue for millennia, while it 
has become more fashionable in some parts of the New 
World to use the language of modern business. Both are 
as correct as they are misleading.
The system borrows heavily from the Roman Republic’s 
political institutions. Although the democratic elements 
of that system were stripped away long ago, the overall 
structure and some of the names remain. This system runs 
parallel to the Camarilla’s organization. Thus, someone 
might hold varying rank within both. Ventrue tend to 
place more esteem on Camarilla titles than on their all-but-
outdated Ventrue titles except at the highest levels (such 
as the Directorate). Although they care about both, few 
outside the clan could care less about a Ventrue’s internal 
standing. Always hungry for the respect and devotion of 
other Kindred, Ventrue naturally prefer to achieve offices 
that outsiders and clanmates will respect equally.
The Ventrue do take pride in the fact that every clan 
member has a place and knows just where he stands within 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
39
the clan in relation to everyone else. Of course, the system 
is not at all like the Tremere’s eldritch pyramid of authority 
or some military organization. One does not necessarily 
ascend a ladder of advancement from rank to rank. Rather, 
members can move through the (largely honorific) system 
as their abilities and fortunes decree. The Ventrue feel that 
this system allows them more flexibility and lets them spot 
new talent within the clan and reward it if desirable. The 
clan elders often point this latter facet of the system out 
to young Kindred who are anxious and frustrated at the 
lackluster success of their own unlives.
The clan’s youth do have something to complain about, 
although the wise ones don’t do so too loudly for fear of 
souring their own chances for advancement. Increasing 
esteem within the clan takes more than just ability. The 
elders, particularly the local and international Directorates, 
approve who advances when. No matter what those elders 
might tell the clan at large, their decision-making process 
does not (and never has) relied solely upon a Ventrue’s 
ability and accomplishments. Personal feelings, alliances, 
jealousies, contacts, bribes, favors and a host of other purely 
political factors come into play — which is perfectly ap-
ropos in the social setting of Ventrue status. Ventrue who 
want to rise must learn to play the game and not make too 
many enemies (or make sure that they also have the right 
allies). Some resent this system. Most recognize it as the 
exact kind of policy that prepares them best for dealing 
with the rest of the world in true Ventrue fashion.
It should be noted that almost any Ventrue, unless 
expressly forbidden by one of the bodies described later, can 
literally buy into the hierarchy. The various Ventrue bodies 
manage tremendous assets, most of which are made up of 
contributions allocated by individual clan members. The 
lowliest, most impoverished Ventrue could theoretically set 
aside one Mexican peso per year for support of the clan cof-
fers and reap the full benefits of the hierarchy’s recognition. 
In truth, this sort of thing happens rarely. The higher levels 
of the hierarchy are very much a venue for the wealthy and 
influential. For less prominent Blue Bloods, the benefit they 
have is that they are rarely forced to set aside funds for the 
clan’s greater assets. “The Ventrue have no tithes or dues,” as 
the saying goes, and most young Ventrue prefer to deal with 
the world on their own terms, at least until the opportunity 
to join the esteemed ranks of the peerage means more than 
shining the silver at an elder’s soiree.
The Titles
Ventrue love titles and offices, although most would 
never admit to such emotional attachment to anything, 
much less a sometimes ceremonial appellation. The 
Ventrue have made distinct two levels of title: local and 
clanwide. In each case, the highest-ranking Ventrue have 
the greatest discretion over promoting and demoting 
others through the ranks. There are no elections, and 
no position carries any “job security.”
Clan Titles
The Directorate (The Ephorate)
Most young Ventrue have heard about the Direc-
torate, the shadowy body of 12 or so elder Ventrue that 
has tremendous sway over the clan. Older Ventrue still 
remember the older name, the Ephorate, by which the 
council was known for many centuries. The classical 
name comes from the ruling council of ancient Sparta. 
The clan adopted this name in the Renaissance, since 
the word “senate” had unpleasant associations for them 
and seemed inappropriate for a body of less than three 
dozen individuals. Even in the 21st century, the two titles 
remain interchangeable, although “Board of Directors” or 
“Directorate” is becoming somewhat more fashionable.
The ephors or directors establish precedent in matters 
of “clan policy.” Just what that statement means is open 
to interpretation: Certainly, individual Ventrue princes 
have preeminent influence over their domains. The clan 
justicar definitely has her own powers, responsibilities and 
free will. The Ventrue representative to the Camarilla 
Inner Circle has his or her own authority as well. What, 
then, does the Ephorate do exactly?
For starters, the ephors manage several clanwide en-
deavors and clan holdings. Ventrue have vast monetary 
reserves spread through banks and secret caches around 
the world. They own vast amounts of real estate, they 
hold stock in every major (and most minor) corporations, 
and they hold controlling interests in more than a few 
of them. These resources allow them to disperse funds to 
clan members in need and give them tremendous politi-
cal and economic clout if they choose to use it. Where 
a coalition of individual Ventrue might backstab each 
other into futility or be unable to bring enough resources 
to bear against a certain situation, the Ephorate can act as 
a guidance council or lending institution. For example, 
a coterie of Ventrue wishing to establish a global com-
munications network could appeal to the ephors, not 
only for venture capital, but also as a board of directors 
unaffiliated with the network company itself (thereby 
assuring the petitioning Kindred that their fellow venture 
partners wouldn’t have undue influence over their own 
share of the operation). Managing this vast, invisible 
financial empire alone takes a great deal of their time. 
The ephors also choose the clan’s representative to the 
Camarilla Inner Circle. The Kindred chosen for this great 
honor invariably comes from their own ranks, although 
his or her identity remains a secret (as do those of most of 
the ephors, who work almost exclusively through assistant 


Clanbook: Ventrue
40
Kindred and other agents). This influence over the course 
of Camarilla politics also ensures that all Ventrue take 
heed of the Ephorate’s will. After all, most of them hope 
to hold high Camarilla honors one night, be it the title 
of prince, archon or even justicar.
The ephors also set policy for the clan as a whole, 
for what it’s worth. Clanwide policy issues usually center 
around what stance the Ventrue take on various political 
and security issues within the Camarilla. When the ephors 
make a decision about such an issue, everyone within the 
clan is expected to follow their lead. While many Ventrue 
may ignore such directives easily, the princes, primogen 
and other visible elders are certainly encouraged to heed 
them. These policies usually focus on topics such as rela-
tions with and actions against the Sabbat, how to check 
the rising power of the Tremere, what to do about Caitiff 
and so on. They also attend to more mundane matters, 
including which party to support in national elections, 
certain stocks that should be traded at certain prices and 
other economic and political concerns.
Perhaps the Ephorate’s most important power is its role 
in arbitrating intra-clan disputes. When Ventrue disagree 
(a common enough event) or one of them violates any of 
the myriad clan traditions and guidelines, the Directorate 
has established a process for resolving such problems. The 
local clan structures take responsibility for handling the 
smaller disputes, but when serious matters come up or two 
potent Ventrue collide, the ephors have the power to pass 
final judgment on the matter. Typical disputes involve 
conflict over domains and areas of influence. Most of the 
time, the clan leaders let individual Ventrue work these 
issues out among themselves — such is the way of the 
Jyhad. Sometimes, however, the ephors need to step in, 
especially in very volatile or far-sweeping cases.
Crime is another matter altogether. When a Ven-
true breaks with clan tradition, he risks not only his 
dignitas, but his very place within the clan and even 
his existence. The two most grave crimes are slaying a 
fellow Ventrue and failing to heed a call for assistance. 
Both events come to the Directorate’s attention so 
rarely — although they undoubtedly take place with 
relative frequency — that the body has full authority 
over all such cases. When charges are brought, the ac-
cused comes before the ephors, or possibly only some of 
the ephors, to stand trial. The ephors preside over the 
trial from behind a curtain or two-way mirror, or within 
darkness so that the accused never sees them or hears 
them speak. An advocate questions the witnesses and 
cross-examines the accused. The trial seldom lasts more 
than a few nights, and the ephors may even resort to the 
use of vulgar Disciplines to find the truth of the matter 
if the matter is in doubt.
Having established the truth, the Ephorate can 
administer one of several punishments. Final Death is 
a dire option, since no clan can claim such power over 
its members, at least according to the literal wording of 
Camarilla Traditions. In reality, the ephors have ordered 
more than a few Final Deaths over their long history, 
although they have never admitted to it. The ephors can 
strip a Ventrue of his title, his holdings and his boons, or 
even impose a term of imprisonment (sometimes with a 
stake through the heart for good measure). In extreme 
cases, the Ephorate can demand that the criminal Kindred 
agree to a blood bond either to the aggrieved party or 
an influential and responsible clan member.
All of these temporal powers aside, the Directorate’s 
most important role is not so easily quantified. The direc-
tors set the tone and stance for the entire clan. Their 
philosophies, leadership styles and political stances are 
discussed and debated through the ranks, influencing the 
majority of the Ventrue to some degree or another, as an 
example of how (or how not to) conduct one’s affairs. As 
the most powerful members of the most resourceful clan, 
they have contacts everywhere, servants almost everywhere 
and direct influence in global arenas. Between them, they 
can accomplish grave feats since their combined power 
— especially vis-a-vis the mortal world — rivals that of a 
major government. The fact that few Ventrue even know 
who sits on the council makes their potential power all the 
more fearsome and mysterious. If ever a group deserved 
the title of secret masters, it is the Ephorate.
Of course, such grand ideals and practices fall far 
beyond the scope of almost any given Ventrue’s sphere 
of influence. A neonate whose sire denies his attempts 
to blackmail a police detective is none too likely to at-
tract the Directorate’s attention, and few ephors care if 
some 13th-generation Blue Blood has chosen to flout one 
principle of dignitas. As with all matters political and the 
very nature of the Ventrue’s collective empire, individuals 
matter far, far less than the moment of the greater body.
The Elders (Stragetgoi)
Clan Ventrue has many venerable members who do 
not sit on the Board of Directors. Some are princes, others 
primogen, but all have garnered great respect within the clan. 
Likewise, they are much more public figures than the ephors, at 
least within Ventrue’s own ranks, due to their lack of secrecy. 
No doubt some of those whom the world recognizes as strategoi 
are in fact ephors as well. The world, of course, has no way 
of knowing. Directors or no, the strategoi are the honorary 
“generals” of Clan Ventrue, as their name suggests. They 
carry out the policies that the secretive ephors hand down, 
enforcing the Directorate’s will. For the most part, they are 
the only Ventrue to have direct, possibly even face-to-face, 
contact with members of the Ephorate.


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
41
The strategoi effectively run the operations of the 
Ephorate’s quotidian concerns. Each is responsible for a dif-
ferent part of the Ephorate’s dominion. In heavily populated 
regions, this responsibility can apply to just a few hundred 
square miles, while it can cover a number of whole states in 
the wide-open plains of the American and Canadian West. 
Strategoi usually make their havens within their territory, 
often serving as a primogen or esteemed elder. Strategos 
princes are more rare, since their duties to the Kindred of 
their domain occupy too much time and make it hard to 
fulfill their other obligations as well as they should.
From night to night, the strategos oversees Ventrue 
business and political affairs in his region in addition to 
tending to his own needs and dignitas. In times of crisis, the 
strategos must step in and enforce the Directorate’s policy 
findings, whether regarding Sabbat incursions, anarch riots 
or Cainite power plays that threaten Ventrue holdings. 
They have no official power over princes of course, but they 
do have the Ephorate’s weight and influence behind them, 
which provides them with resources even beyond their 
own considerable assets. Strategoi can also help arbitrate 
intra-clan disputes and bring the rare rogue Ventrue to 
the Directorate’s attention. All in all, the strategos’ powers 
are somewhat analogous to those of a Camarilla justicar, 
although extending only to clan Ventrue, of course.
Troubleshooters (Lictors)
The strategoi themselves seldom dirty their hands with 
detail work. They determine the best manner for effecting 
the Ephorate’s will, then delegate the necessary tasks to 
their lictors. If strategoi can be likened to justicars, then the 
lictors are their archons. Many younger members refer to 
them as troubleshooters, the individuals in a corporation 
who move from department to department, fixing any 
problems they come across. The lictors do the same thing 
throughout the entire Ventrue clan. 
Individual lictors tend to specialize in particular types 
of problems. Some have expertise in financial matters, 
others are leaders, and still others have proven diplomatic 
records. When a Ventrue elder or consortium in a particular 
city has troubles it cannot handle effectively on its own 
(something as a group they are always loath to admit, 
although it takes only one esteemed Ventrue to call in a 
lictor), they call upon their strategoi to send help. That help 
usually comes in the form of a lictor. More often than not, 
she is enough. Her mere presence as a representative of 
the strategoi (and thus the ephors) lends a certain cachet 
that can help rally the other clan members to solve the 
problem together under the lictor’s direction — something 
they probably could have done on their own if they were 
able to put aside their petty differences.
The title of lictor is much prized, especially among 
relatively young (under 200 years) Ventrue who seek a 


Clanbook: Ventrue
42
way to increase their dignitas. More than one lictor has 
stepped into a city full of warring Ventrue and wound 
up assuming the title prince when all was said and done. 
Likewise, a troubleshooter is on the slow-but-sure path 
toward the ranks of the strategoi or even the Directorate, 
by definition. With opportunity comes risk, though, and 
the troubleshooters have their share of that, both political 
and material. Doing the strategoi’s dirty work can make 
one some powerful enemies, and rallying the troops in 
the face of bloodthirsty Sabbat or anarchs is always risky. 
For those who survive the experience, however, holding 
the title of lictor is a sure step toward greatness.
Agents at Large (Tribunes)
The Ephorate maintains a loose network of contacts 
and “field operatives” around the world. These Kindred 
are referred to as both tribunes and agents at large, and 
they serve as the ephors’ eyes and ears in Camarilla (and 
sometimes even Sabbat) cities. They have no official 
powers or duties, and they often do not even acknowl-
edge their title publicly (a hard thing for any Ventrue). 
The tribunes tend to be young Ventrue who the lictors 
or strategoi have decided show promise. They not only 
have a strong track record and reputable dignitas, they also 
have a history of respect for their elders and the Ventrue 
traditions, at least some of the time.
Most nights, tribunes do nothing in their titular 
capacity. Sometimes, though, they receive messages from 
the ephors (passed on by strategoi) that they must deliver 
to prominent local clan members. In turn, they report to 
their superiors what takes place in their city. Often, the 
city’s tribunes call upon a strategos for help rather than the 
city’s elders doing so. Not bound up in their own dignitas 
as city leaders, they usually have no qualms about asking 
for help when it’s needed. A tribune occasionally calls 
for assistance when it’s not necessary, but few make the 
mistake twice. The local and clanwide repercussions for 
such a mistake usually force the wolf-crying tribune out 
of office and possibly even the city.
Perhaps most important of all, a tribune must be on hand 
to assist any lictor or strategos who comes to town. Although 
tribunes often hold other ranks and titles within both the 
Ventrue clan and the Camarilla, they are expected to put 
them aside and serve the Ephorate (and its entourage) first 
and foremost. Doing so can sometimes make local clanmates 
jealous and angry, but the ephors typically reward the loyalty 
their subordinates show them handsomely.
The Peerage
Not every Ventrue who distinguishes herself 
becomes a member of the elders’ collection of pawns 
and catspaws. While the goals of the Ephorate and its 
supporters are admirable (in its estimation, at least), few 
Ventrue wish to tie themselves so closely to the whims 
of their sires and elders.
The peerage — individual members are known as 
peers — is a loose but recognized body of Ventrue who 
have accumulated any but the most minor degree of 
esteem within Camarilla or the Ventrue social hierarchy. 
It takes more than the acceptance of the prince to join 
the peerage, but not much. A sanction by a member 
of the Ventrue hierarchy, whether local or clanwide, is 
enough to allow a Kindred to join the peerage’s ranks, 
however. Additionally, a Ventrue peerage is present in 
almost any city where a Blue Blood makes her haven.
As a group, the peerage exists to further the Ventrue 
traditions and the concept of dignitas — nothing more. 
By conferring status upon “good” members of the clan, 
the Ventrue reward those among them who toe the 
line and make names for themselves without causing 
undue schisms among one another. For example, a young 
Ventrue who influences the outcome of a local zoning 
hearing successfully in order to preserve a city’s Elysium 
might be extended an invitation to join the peerage. 
An ambitious Ventrue who usurps his sire’s interests in 
his corporate holdings would not.
To this end, the peerage is nothing so much as a 
social register, a club of Ventrue with impeccably clean 
(if not impeccable) reputations. Still, the Ventrue place 
great value on such things — it allows them to set 
themselves apart from the uncouth among their ranks.
City Titles
Lately, it has become fashionable to refer to the clan 
organization within a given city as if it were a corporation 
and assign various business-inspired titles to individual 
Ventrue. In actuality, this appellation convention is 
merely an update of the more traditional nomenclature 
that Ventrue have used for centuries, based upon clas-
sical Spartan and Roman political titles. The business 
model actually reflects very well how Ventrue operate, 
but many venerable Ventrue — especially in the Old 
World — still use the traditional names.
Additionally, local assemblies of Ventrue are 
known as consortiums, although this word has no for-
mal meaning. Some elders use it in place of the word 
“coterie” when speaking of cells of young Ventrue, 
while other Blue Bloods use it to refer to any group of 
two or more Ventrue undertaking a given endeavor. 
The word has only come into vogue recently — within 
the past decade or so — because it sounds so much 
more genteel than “faction” or “conspiracy.”
The Board (The Gerousia)
The Gerousia (loosely translated as council of elders) 
or Board effectively adjudicates Ventrue concerns within 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
43
the city. It usually consists of the eldest, most experienced 
Kindred in the given locality. If the city has a Ventrue 
prince, he or she likely sits as the head of the Gerousia. 
Otherwise, the clan primogen or other highest-ranking 
Camarilla title-holder rules the council. One joins the 
council only by invitation and majority approval by the 
sitting members. Once a Ventrue ascends to the Gerou-
sia’s ranks, he cannot be removed except under the most 
dire of circumstance (as determined by the clan ephors). 
In a corporate capacity, the Gerousia oversees Ventrue 
business and political interests within the city, much like 
a holding company. Indeed, some Boards do incorporate 
under just such missions. This organizational structure leads 
not only to managing funds and taking positions, but also 
monitoring the individual Ventrue’s investments and their 
activities. As a general rule, Ventrue do not compete directly 
with one another for the same contacts and resources. The 
Gerousia acts as arbiter of any local conflicts of interest that 
might arise. If it so chooses, the council can demand that 
a clan member cease his or her efforts in a particular area, 
and it can enforce the demand as it sees fit. For example, 
should two Kindred make a play for influence within the 
local steel industry, the Gerousia might hold a hearing to 
determine who had the rights to said influence, assuming 
that one of the Ventrue brought the matter to the group’s 
attention. For the most part, though, individual Ventrue 
are loath to turn to the Board, because doing so implies 
that they are incapable of asserting their own dominance.
The Gerousia holds two types of meetings. Monthly 
clanwide meetings are usually held the first Tuesday of 
the month. Every Ventrue in the city should attend these 
conferences, because the clan discusses new and old busi-
ness, hears complaints and reports, and the Gerousia passes 
down any messages, edicts or announcements from the 
upper reaches of the clan hierarchy. The Gerousia also 
holds private meetings on an irregular basis as needed, in 
which the members discuss greater political or financial 
issues as well as more discreet clan affairs.
Despite the honor and dignitas associated with serving 
on the Gerousia, the council has very little formal power. It 
cannot order other Ventrue within the city to do anything. 
Rather, it can, but it has no capacity to directly punish 
those who disobey. Indirect punishments abound, however. 
Those who go against the Board’s wishes find themselves 
outcast — and greeting the sunrise in the most extreme 
cases. Without the Board’s protection, other Ventrue can 
and will assault the anathema Kindred’s financial and 
political holdings. Peer pressure is the Board’s greatest 
weapon, and Board members wield it almost dictatorially.
Managers (Praetors)
The highest Ventrue rank within a city’s hierarchy, 
the praetors or managers almost always have a seat on the 
Gerousia as well. Each city has one praetor at most (if it has 
one at all) who might well be the prince or Ventrue primo-
gen as well. As the alternate title, manager, suggests, these 
powerful Kindred are responsible for guiding and managing 
Ventrue affairs within the city. In order to attend this lofty 
position, a Ventrue must perforce be not only an elder, but 
an elder with unassailable dignitas and wide-ranging support 
among the peerage. Praetors hold their position indefinitely, 
and only a strategos or ephor can remove one from his post.
The praetor maintains with his own funds the “public” 
meeting space where any Ventrue can come to attend 
the monthly Board meetings. Such a place is usually an 
exclusive club of some sort, but it can be anywhere the 
praetor chooses, such as a hotel’s function space, a sky-
scraper’s boardroom or even the den or office of her own 
haven. The meeting place’s atmosphere and appointments 
reflect directly upon the praetor, so most spend lavishly on 
providing a luxurious and impressive facility. The praetor 
also chairs these Board meetings and acts as a tie-breaker 
in all Gerousia votes.
Other than these few responsibilities, the praetor has no 
other official powers. Most often, however, he is a Ventrue 
of great influence within the city, which he may well bring 
to bear in matters concerning the Board. Merely achieving 
the office provides him with a sizable boost to his dignitas. 
As the person at the center of all Ventrue affairs in the 
city, he has access to people and information that many 
other clan members do not. Furthermore, the rest of his 
clanmates often turn to him for leadership in any crisis, 
and they tend to follow his instructions without question 
(or without too many questions, in any event).
Supervisors (Aediles)
Below the praetors lie the aediles or supervisors. These 
Ventrue aid the Gerousia and praetor just as supervisors 
assist managers in a business. They keep tabs on what the 
lower-ranked clan members are up to, and they take care 
of the specifics associated with running a corporation, 
such as managing nightly financial issues, investigating 
potential new investments or ensuring that all the bribes 
have been paid on time. The aediles act as spokesmen 
for their superiors, delivering instructions, requests and 
orders to the rest of the clan. They also serve as lieuten-
ants in a crisis, helping to organize and lead the troops 
into whatever metaphorical or real battle is at hand.
The aediles are usually experienced ancillae, individu-
als who have a proven track record and have established 
their own business and influence domains within the 
city. They have resources enough to help them carry out 
their duties without needing help from anyone else. The 
praetors alone or Gerousia as a whole can nominate new 
aediles, and there is technically no limit to the number a 
city might have. In practice, there are seldom more than 


Clanbook: Ventrue
44
three even in the largest cities, and usually only one or 
two. After all, in a city with seven Ventrue, making half 
of them officers practically defeats the purpose.
Foremen (Questors)
Down in the proverbial trenches are the questors or 
foremen. These Kindred are but one rank above the com-
mon Ventrue. Youngish, with some experience, a Ventrue 
receives promotion to this rank in recognition of some 
significant achievement that brought him and the clan 
dignitas and improved fortunes. The questors assist the 
higher-ranking Ventrue by performing basic tasks that 
keep their investments running smoothly. Such tasks can 
be anything from opening an account with a brokerage to 
hiding the bodies of newly deceased union bosses. Often 
aediles assign them tasks with little or no explanation. 
Questors who do their job well can look forward to advance-
ment within the clan as well as personal opportunities they 
might not have perceived otherwise.
The questors sometimes take pleasure in flaunting their 
position over the common Ventrue. Although they have no 
real authority over their lesser clanmates, they can rightly 
point out that they have the ear of the elders whereas most 
neonates have no access at all. Questors spend their nights 
accruing favors and good will with their superiors, who 
occasionally throw them a bone to gnaw on. Of course, 
Ventrue bones tend to be things like hundred-thousand-
dollar stock options or important government contacts, so 
a foreman can do quite well by playing the game.
Associates (Eiren)
At the bottom of the pile stand the eiren, otherwise 
known as associates. No matter who their sire might be, 
young Ventrue have a long way to go before they gain real 
respect within the clan. The word eiren comes from the 
Spartan word for inexperienced youths, not yet matured 
by battle and experience into true men, which is exactly 
how many Ventrue see their younger clan members. They 
have excellent breeding and valuable skills brought from 
their mortal lives, no doubt, but they are ultimately noth-
ing more than fledglings who need experience to temper 
and shape them into true Ventrue.
Eiren have little respect, but, then again, they have few 
responsibilities. Although sometimes referred to as associ-
ates, these young Kindred do not have any official jobs or 
tasks that they must perform. If a questor or higher-ranked 
Ventrue asks them to do something, they may choose to 
refuse, of course. The Ventrue can think of no better way 
to ensure that one never leaves eiren status, but no one has 
the power to force the neonate do anything. Most, however, 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
45
do what they’re told, all the while trying to find some way 
to extend their own influence and increase their dignitas. 
One must work within the system to ascend its ranks. As 
a rule, the Ventrue do not reward mavericks.
Investors, Partners and Nonmembers
Naturally, not every Ventrue is a lackey or a scion 
of a given city’s Board. Those Ventrue who invest with 
the Board might not hold a title within the organization, 
but that does not make them janitors. For those who do 
not attach themselves to the Board, unlife continues as 
it would for any other Kindred. Indeed, many Ventrue 
who place themselves outside of the local and clanwide 
hierarchy rise to great station in the Camarilla. Likewise, 
nothing prevents them from accumulating accolades on 
their own (see the “Going Solo” sidebar). Ventrue do not 
force their hierarchy upon their members; they simply 
encourage their members to avail themselves of its vast 
resources and make their own contributions.
The Embrace
The Ventrue reserve their blood for those whom 
they consider truly worthy, those who stand head and 
shoulders above the herd. Only men and women who 
have something that strikes the potential sire as admirable 
deserve consideration. Even then, most do not make the 
cut. While every Kindred has her own feelings when it 
comes to choosing childer, the clan as a whole does have 
its own standards to which all new Kindred are held. 
Neonates who fail to meet the clan’s benchmark find 
themselves shunned by their blood-siblings, left out of 
important opportunities and otherwise disadvantaged. 
Many would-be sires discuss their potential childer with 
their elders, often their own sires, before the Embrace, thus 
gauging the new Ventrue’s acceptance into proper society.
Tonight, especially in the West, the noble’s time has 
passed. Formerly potent human bloodlines now give birth 
to anemic, spoiled dilettantes who have never governed 
anything but a paid servant and a trust-fund allowance. 
Since the concept of the noble class began its decline two 
centuries ago, the Ventrue have shifted their attention to 
less well-bred but more promising classes. In the modern 
nights, rare is the Ventrue neonate who can claim titled 
blood except by coincidence. Although they consider 
themselves the nobility of Kindred society, the Ventrue 
care little for mortal titles any longer. It was always the 
power that came with the title that drew them.
Government
Although stereotype portrays the Ventrue as the 
consummate undead businessmen, the clan actually feels 
quite comfortable within the halls of government. Politics 
and business have long worked hand-in-hand, and money 
has always played an important role in determining policy. 
Still, government’s raw power — the authority to accom-
plish goals by decree, the ability to sit in judgment over 
others, the expectation of having one’s commands obeyed 
— appeals to many Ventrue sensibilities. It is no wonder, 
then, that successful politicians often make great Ventrue.
Of course, Ventrue very seldom Embrace success-
ful public officials. The sudden inability of a sitting or 
former Senator to walk about during the day would not 
go unnoticed. The modern world’s elected officials stay 
in the public eye too much. Only rarely would a sensible 
Ventrue Embrace someone so exposed to the public, since 
the person’s death must invariably be faked (or some 
other cover story must be created) to explain the person’s 
disappearance. Even then, most Ventrue feel that the risk 
of someone recognizing the new Kindred far outweighs 
the benefits of having him within the clan’s ranks.
Instead, the Ventrue set their sights on political advi-
sors and accomplished bureaucrats who know the ins and 
outs of government but who aren’t well known outside 
their own intimate circles. Besides, the advisors tend to 
Going Solo
Players and Storytellers, don’t feel like a Ven-
true character must have a litany of titles to be an 
influential or interesting persona. Most Ventrue 
have little more than a peerage behind them, and 
most neonates have yet to accomplish even that.
True, the Ventrue organize more than most other 
clans. Yet, even with the Ventrue, clan is not a rigidly 
enforced concept. No Blue Blood sergeant is going to 
kick down the door of a character’s haven and stake 
her for not adhering to Ventrue Bylaw 517-a.
The Ventrue hierarchy exists for two purposes. 
First, it allows Ventrue Kindred to pool their re-
sources and reap greater benefits than any individual 
Cainite would likely be able to accomplish. It is an 
investment club, political lobby, high-society as-
sociation, union and social contract all rolled into 
one. Second, it allows the scheming elders to… 
well, you’re better off not knowing that.
Many Ventrue make their fortunes without un-
due reliance on the hierarchy. They choose to do so 
for any number of reasons. Some Blue Bloods would 
rather not indebt themselves to others of their kind. 
Other Ventrue prefer to have sole control over their 
own assets, rather than relying on a hidden cabal of 
hoary elders to do what they think is best.
The Ventrue accord no shame to their blood-
siblings who work outside the system. Of course, it’s 
harder for them to be recognized by others… but not 
every Ventrue needs the validation of his associates.


Clanbook: Ventrue
46
have as much or more actual power in modern politics 
than the elected figureheads they represent. They run the 
show behind the scenes, make the deals and even deter-
mine policy. Of course, this is exactly how the Ventrue 
themselves try to influence the kine political landscape.
The Ventrue Embrace these career politicians for their 
expertise, mindset and experience, not for any personal power 
they currently wield. Politics is too ephemeral to Embrace 
a person just because of the position he occupies at the 
moment. The Ventrue use their vast contacts, sycophants, 
allies and loyal ghouls to address such issues. Childer with 
government experience become Ventrue because they know 
how to lead. They can make decisions, tell others what to do, 
analyze a crisis and exercise diplomacy. Such neonates are 
usually marked from their Embrace for greatness. Their sires 
train them to take on the mantle of responsibility, both as 
Ventrue and among Kindred society as a whole. Ultimately, 
they are the clan’s future and their sires’ prestigious progeny, 
if they can learn to wait a few centuries.
Business
Managing and making money has become second 
nature to the Ventrue in the past few centuries. The 
clan elders recognized long ago that power in Western 
society was shifting from hereditary divine right to the 
new, moneyed aristocracy. Acting with what some might 
consider uncharacteristic acumen, they concentrated 
their efforts on understanding and mastering the new 
world of free trade and unbridled capitalism.
And the Ventrue have mastered it. Business is as 
much art as skill, and it is timeless in most ways. A 
good businessman will always be just that. However, 
markets, goods and technologies change, even though 
the fundamentals remain the same. Therefore, the 
Ventrue have long monitored the ranks of big business 
for new childer, always looking for competent protégés 
to help expand their ever-increasing financial holdings. 
Banking, real estate and long-term investments are 
well-traveled ground, but the Internet, biotechnology, 
managed health care, foreign market cultivation and 
day trading are new fields that need new expertise.
Unfortunately for the newly Embraced, financially 
savvy Ventrue are chosen almost solely for their ability 
to make the clan money, unlike government experts who 
are Embraced for their leadership qualities. Granted, 
money is very important to the Ventrue, but ultimately 
it is just a tool. Having substantial funds lets the Blue 
Bloods achieve their goals in every other field. However, 
a distinct prejudice toward such Ventrue remains, es-
pecially among the noble-born elders. They view these 
“bankers” as little more than artisans. They are clan 
members, but of a lesser quality, probably not cut out for 
the clan’s legacy of noble guidance of the race of Caine. 
As a result, neonates often have a hard time making 
a name for themselves. Any successes in business are 
simply what the clan expects of them, and they usually 
have trouble succeeding in other venues, where more 
experienced Ventrue build their own dignitas.
Organized Crime
Society has always had its criminal element, and less 
ethical Ventrue have long acknowledged these humans 
as potential clan members. Ancient prejudices and an 
inclination toward nobility meant that, for millennia, few 
self-respecting Ventrue would even consider Embracing 
such ill-bred kine. In the past century, organized crime has 
come into its own in the West, transcending individual 
criminals and becoming that which Ventrue respect most 
in the mortal world: an institution.
From a certain standpoint, organized crime figures 
make ideal recruits. Most have experience wielding 
autocratic power, making tough, ruthless decisions and 
working behind the scenes to influence the mortal world. 
They certainly value money, and moreover, they have 
experience using it to circumvent other kine and their 
institutions. Furthermore, unlike public officials, they 
use their power out of visibility, away from the public 
eye. Therefore, their disappearance from the ranks of 
the living does not attract much attention.
Despite having all these fine qualities to recommend 
them, organized crime leaders have several important strikes 
against them as far as most Ventrue are concerned. First of 
all, they tend to be uncouth, uneducated and disrespectful 
of tradition, particularly those sired within the past five 
decades. Even those who do not fit into this stereotype find 
themselves the victims of prejudice. As soon as a noble-born 
or MBA-trained Ventrue discovers the Kindred’s criminal 
past, she tends to view him with scorn immediately. As 
a result, most crime-boss Ventrue have a hard time rising 
high within the clan’s ranks unless they show exceptional 
ability combined with proper decorum.
Few mobsters retain their ties to their old gangs 
for more than a few years. It is possible to continue 
running a gang as a member of the undead since few 
underlings can question their leader’s decision to meet 
only at night. Eventually, though, the ties must become 
less obvious. Often, the Ventrue nominates a successor, 
usually a groomed underling or even a ghoul, to run the 
organization in his absence. Using this technique, a few 
Ventrue have managed to reap the benefits of their gangs 
for decades. Most however, must use their skills to make 
their own fortunes. They must make the most of their 
underworld influence and contacts to open other avenues 
for achieving dignitas if they hope to rise within their clan.


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
47
Military
In nights long past, nobles and military leaders were 
interchangeable. Tonight, most nations in which the 
Ventrue hold sway make a firm point of separating political 
leadership from the military. Kine with armed forces experi-
ence make good Kindred candidates, especially if they have 
distinguished themselves by achieving rank or numerous 
awards (the titles and ranks especially appeal to Ventrue 
sensibilities). They know how to give orders and comport 
themselves with dignity. They can also take orders, and they 
have an ingrained respect for institutions and authority. All 
in all, they have every quality a Ventrue could want.
Well, almost every quality. The problem is that most 
successful military men and women do not have the 
right temperament for being Kindred. They often value 
honor, forthrightness and honesty, qualities that don’t 
lend themselves well to an unlife of murder, treachery 
and crumbling morality. Put more simply, most don’t want 
to suck blood and stab backs for all eternity. Those who 
do — the sociopathic mercenaries who join the military 
not to defend their nation but to kill for money — usu-
ally don’t have any of the other qualities that Ventrue 
do admire. Therefore, although many elders scrutinize 
the military for possible recruits (among other reasons), 
fewer and fewer Ventrue hail from the armed forces.
Labor Unions
Since they’re political institutions by nature, unions 
represent another fertile field for harvesting new Ventrue. 
While Ventrue interests usually lined up against the union 
movements in Europe and the United States for many years, 
the clan was quick to step in and avail itself of the unions’ 
burgeoning power once these labor groups achieved real 
power. Although their influence seems to be on the decline 
in some countries, the labor unions still produce their share 
of valued Ventrue. Like politicians, union leaders have all 
the skills a Ventrue looks for: They lead their fellow kine, 
they know how to deal, and they can play rough if they 
have to. What’s more, it’s easier to find a way to make one 
disappear from mortal life unless he has a very high profile. 
(And no, Jimmy Hoffa is not a Ventrue.)
Kindred from union backgrounds tend to keep their 
interests focused on the same issues for which they fought 
in life. Their intimate knowledge of the labor movement 
allows them to influence and shift large groups of organized 
workers to better suit their needs. The only problem is 
that, as with religious devotees, many labor organizers 
believe deeply in their cause. Not every gifted union boss 
works willingly for the other side just because he’s now 
a vampire. Therefore, Ventrue focus their attention on 
those leaders already compromised in some way, either 
through personal avarice or via blackmail.
Their mortal-world training and experience make 
union leaders well suited for existence as a Ventrue, but 
their all-too-common working-class origins do not. The 
aristocratic Kindred in the clan (of which there are many) 
naturally look down on these blue-collar rabble-rousers. 
Even if the new Kindred manages to act the refined and 
noble part, he still faces discrimination based on his 
background alone. This plebian taint can hamper one’s 
ability to accrue dignitas and position within the clan, 
if not outside it. The problem fades gradually with age, 
and some groundbreaking union organizers from the 19th 
century have succumbed, shedding their utilitarian values 
and rising in status.
Clergy
Religion and Kindred have a long, uncomfortable 
history. The fact that devout, suspicious kine tend to 
congregate in churches makes them less than hospitable 
to vampiric influences. And yet, religious leaders have 
held great temporal power for many, many centuries. 
As an institution, the Church (of whatever faith or de-
nomination) appeals to Ventrue sensibilities — especially 
the rituals, the traditions, the moral authority and the 
popular influence. As for individual clergy, the Ventrue 
can pretty much take them or leave them.
Compared to the situation just a few centuries ago, 
religion has lost some of its power in the Western world. 
At one time, bishops were favored vehicles or targets 
for Ventrue schemes, along with nobles. Times change, 
though, and now clergy members pale in desirability 
compared to the other kinds of kine. Still, they have 
something that most do not: moral authority. Many 
Ventrue see themselves as a Platonic ideal when it comes 
to Kindred behavior. They feel that they define how a 
Kindred should view, exist in and interact with the rest 
of the world. Religious leaders have that same certainty 
that their ethical code can build a better world. The 
Ventrue like this righteous self-assurance.
Old habits die hard, and the Ventrue still hold Kindred 
from the clergy in high regard within their ranks as a rule. 
Those from more traditional, established faiths and spheres 
of influence usually have the proper attitudes and manners 
to negotiate the rarefied circles of Ventrue society. Likewise, 
those with a grounding in ritual and hierarchy acclimate 
quickly to the Byzantine politics of the Damned. Kindred 
with religious roots tend to go far in the clan, finding few 
doors closed to them out of prejudice. The only exceptions 
are the few childer from the more radical or reactionary 
fanatical sects. Many Ventrue find these individuals crass, 
base and uncouth, and few are ever even considered for 
the Embrace. The handful who have joined the clan have 
had a hard time of it from their blue-blooded brethren.


Clanbook: Ventrue
48
Academia
As any college professor can attest, the halls of 
academia do not hold much temporal power. Except for 
the heads of large universities who might have local or 
statewide political gravity, most academics are confined 
to mere thoughts and words without the deeds. Why, 
then, would the Ventrue take interest in such individuals? 
For the most part, they don’t. Occasionally, however, a 
Ventrue decides that an insightful thinker or innovative 
engineer could prove useful, and he Embraces an academic 
or two, plucking them from their libraries and throwing 
them headfirst into the occult world of the Kindred.
Academics (at least the ones who would interest a 
Ventrue) know how to think. They have problem-solving 
skills and a wealth of experience dealing with others in a 
structured setting, and they often have a way with words 
and ideas. They also know how to research a problem 
and determine its base causes. Moreover, the Ventrue 
clan’s traditional and historically oriented social structure 
makes having a trained researcher on your side a definite 
political asset. Finally, quality academic candidates know 
how to both explain things to others and convince them 
of their point of view. In other words, as the Ventrue see 
it, academics know how to make other people think the 
way they want them to think.
A one-time professor who joins the clan does so on a less 
than even footing. Unless they have other qualities (such 
as noble birth or aristocratic upbringing), most Ventrue 
tend to regard them as curiosities or hopelessly specialized. 
Nobles find them pedestrian, businessmen see them as 
little more than tools, and politicos see them as irrelevant 
daydreamers. Thus an academic without real dynamism 
finds himself confined to supporting and advisory roles. 
Most academics find such roles comfortable and familiar. 
Their blood-borne ambition is tempered by a lifetime of 
contemplation. Eternal unlife, supernatural powers and 
what money and influence they might earn as Ventrue are 
usually more than enough to satisfy such progeny. With 
whole new vistas of Kindred-oriented research open to 
them, they have plenty to occupy their time and talents.
Others
The above categories by no means define the limits 
of which kine the Ventrue Embrace. They are just ten-
dencies. The clan always keeps an eye open for talent 
and ability, traits that can be found in the most unlikely 
places. The media has provided its share of recruits, as 
has the entertainment industry. Talented writers with 
the power to sway audiences, clever assassins and even 
well-connected athletes and teachers have made their 
place among the Blue Bloods. Even “common people” 
can have that certain spark that attracts a Ventrue’s eye 
or ignites his long-dormant passions. The Ventrue observe 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
49
no restrictions, only customs and prejudices. Most Ventrue 
do not believe that all men are created equal, and only 
among the staid elders do neonates sometimes find it 
hard to shed the taint or distinction of their former lives.
Feeding 
Restrictions
“Why has Caine cursed you thus?” asks a fisherman 
of [Ventrue] in one of the apocryphal Night-Tales of the 
First City. “Why not drink from whomever you please?”
In fact, the Ventrue do just that — they drink as they 
please. Rather, they drink only what they please. Their 
aristocratic tastes have grown so rarified over the centuries 
that they feed only from a specific kind of kine, even under 
the most dire of circumstances. As for Caine cursing them, 
well, the Ventrue would never admit to such a fault. In 
fact, they do not consider themselves disadvantaged at all 
(at least not that they’ll acknowledge in mixed company). 
Their feeding preference is simply a matter of choice for 
them, as well as a sign of good breeding.
Of course, there is more to it than that. If it were just a 
matter of choice, some Ventrue, somewhere, would be crass 
(or practical…) enough to choose to drink from anyone 
at all. No Ventrue exist who fit this bill. Even a Ventrue 
Embraced under unusual circumstances, who never again 
has contact with her sire or clan, still has feeding restric-
tions. Moreover, the restrictions transcend consciousness. 
A Ventrue in torpor cannot imbibe non-Kindred blood 
that does not match her tastes. Even at the brink of Final 
Death, she vomits the vitae up rather than ingests it.
Where does this irksome restriction come from? 
Little evidence has surfaced to show that Caine actually 
cursed the Ventrue. Rather, it appears to be a taint in the 
Ventrue blood, something acquired from the destabilized 
nobles the clan has Embraced for so many centuries. At 
the same time, a mental component exists as well. The 
Ventrue does have a chance to make a conscious decision 
about her feeding preferences. Having made the choice, 
changing it becomes almost impossible (with a few notable 
exceptions discussed later).
Immediately after her Embrace, the Kindred is open 
to all possibilities. Indeed, for a few nights Ventrue can 
in fact feed on any vessel they please. It is not until the 
Ventrue takes her first taste of vitae that she considers truly 
exquisite that a choice is made. This choice does not usu-
ally happen when the Kindred is ravenous with fledgling 
hunger, but rather the first time she has an opportunity 
to choose prey in a timely manner, to really enjoy the 
feeding. That first taste is so thrilling, so entrancing, that 
the Ventrue’s palate will never again settle for anything 
that doesn’t compare.
Theoretically then, a Ventrue who stayed on the edge 
of frenzy every time he fed could avoid ever acquiring 
restrictively selective tastes. That person would have to 
have an indomitable will and enjoy hunting on the edge, 
and he would ultimately frenzy at the wrong moment 
and bring about terrible consequences. Very few newly 
Embraced Ventrue even realize it’s an option, and only a 
handful in recorded history have tried it. Needless to say, 
all met predictably gory ends. 
As a result of their finicky ways, the Ventrue have a 
remarkably refined sense of taste. From a mere sniff, they 
can determine readily whether or not blood is palatable to 
them. Like a master sommelier, they can even discern basic 
aspects of the person’s age, health and diet. Where Kindred 
vitae is concerned, very experienced Ventrue can determine 
even such esoteric values as clan and age, with possibly 
even a guess at generation with an accuracy that would 
make any Tremere blush with jealousy. This ability is not 
a matter of supernatural power, but rather a result of years 
of experience paying careful attention to not only blood’s 
supernatural benefits, but its less tangible qualities as well.
The one instance in which a Ventrue might have 
some hope of changing her tastes comes when her par-
ticular blood type is no longer available. That is to say, 
not available at all, in any way, shape, form or place. Such 
circumstances are rare, since most Ventrue prefer blood 
from specific types of humans. For those whose tastes run 
more precise — such as those who prefer the blood of a 
particular nationality — the situation becomes compli-
cated. Indeed, more than one Ventrue has fallen into 
the cold arms of torpor once vessels of his chosen caste 
or nationality have vanished from the world altogether. 
In some nigh-apocryphal cases, individual Ventrue have 
become attuned to the taste of one specific mortal’s blood 
— woe to them if they cannot adapt their tastes once her 
favored vessel meets his inevitable end.
Perhaps the most famous example is the notoriously 
cruel and crafty Roman Ventrue known in modern ac-
counts as Democritus. Originally Embraced to help fight 
the ongoing war with Carthage, Democritus developed 
a taste for Carthaginian blood. A century later, when 
victory finally came and the Romans had destroyed the 
city utterly, the victors burned Democritus’ blood supply 
as well as the city proper. He found that the residents of 
the newly built Roman Carthage did not suit his needs. 
Democritus soon slipped into torpor. When he awoke, 
he found that his need for Carthaginian blood had van-
ished. He soon acquired a new predilection, this time 
for residents of Byzantium, and has fed well on the city’s 
residents ever since. Now, even though the name has 
changed, the blood of its citizens still satisfies.


Clanbook: Ventrue
50
The Agoge
No matter how many mortal years might have passed 
before their Embrace, newly created Ventrue are no more 
than babes in the woods, compared to the history of the clan. 
The responsibility for preparing a neonate for his release 
falls squarely upon the sire’s shoulders, but the local body 
of the clan often plays a role. Siring a competent, confi-
dent and proper Ventrue means learning from everyone, 
not just parroting the sire’s instructions — or prejudices. 
The Ventrue term this training period the agoge, 
after the ancient Spartan education system. Renowned 
in nights long gone as the most comprehensive and 
demanding means for schooling youth in the world, 
the agoge is a fine metaphor; Ventrue relish drawing the 
comparison between it and their own strict teaching style. 
Although young Ventrue do not sleep on straw mats or 
train constantly for warfare like the Spartan youths did, 
they do face mental and emotional challenges that are 
every bit as trying. They must learn the ins and outs of 
Ventrue etiquette and traditions quickly, all while learn-
ing to master their undead potential and discover their 
place within Camarilla and Kindred society.
Note that the agoge does not always take place. In the 
tumultuous modern nights, many would-be sires simply 
lack the time to introduce a new childe to the intrica-
cies of her legacy. These “latchkey” progeny often have 
difficult times adjusting to their grim fates.
The Newly Re-Born
Unless a given childer was a ghoul or had some other 
association with Kindred, becoming an undying parasite can 
be quite a shock. Most Ventrue give their offspring a few 
nights to adjust to their new state, feeding them either their 
own blood or some from their private herds. During this time, 
the Ventrue explains the situation as he or she sees best. 
This indoctrination is a matter of personal preference, and 
the agoge traditions do not proscribe a particular approach. 
However, sires are encouraged to emphasize to the childe 
that he has become part of a very exclusive, very noble, 
very responsible family. Great opportunities are available to 
them, but they come with important obligations.
The Choice
After a few nights, once the childe has grown ac-
customed (however minimally) to her new existence 
and has a body full of precious vitae, the time has come 
for her to choose her preferred blood type. Traditionally, 
the sire escorts the childe among the kine for an evening, 
although this tradition has become less prevalent in the 
modern nights. The childe looks over the massed humanity 
and listens to her heart and palate. She eventually finds 
a kine who calls to her, whose aroma she cannot resist. 
Sometimes with the sire’s help, the childe feeds. In so do-
ing, she chooses the blood that will sustain her for all time.
The Training Begins
The honeymoon period is now over. The new vam-
pire embarks upon her journey into the bloody world of 
the Kindred and Ventrue. For at least a week, sometimes 
much longer, sire and childe closet themselves away from 
the world. The sire lectures, presents books to be read and 
trains the childe in all the basics, including how to use blood 
to heal or increase physical attributes, how to feed without 
leaving a mark, what the Traditions are, the history of the 
Camarilla, clan history and hierarchy and so on. The agoge 
demands that the sire test her childe constantly, quizzing 
her on facts and challenging her understanding. Many sires 
prefer Socratic tests, as well, teaching their childer more 
as they assimilate previous knowledge. Failure or missteps 
result in withering insults and even physical pain. All told, 
this experience is not pleasant; a single omission in recit-
ing one’s ancestry may result in a week’s denial of vitae.
Presentation 
The first training phase ends when the sire feels that 
the childe has learned enough not to be an embarrass-
ment to him in public. In accordance with Camarilla 
tradition, the sire presents the childe to the city’s prince, 
formally inaugurating her into Kindred society. Every 
available Ventrue in the city attends the presentation 
ceremony and watches the neonate closely. Afterward, 
the Ventrue gather alone and praise or criticize the 
childe’s performance. The neonate meets the rest of her 
clanmates here, probably for the first time.
The Training Continues
At this point, most sires would cut their childer loose, 
since they are no longer accountable for the neonate’s actions, 
according to Camarilla traditions. Not so for the Ventrue. 
For them, the process has just begun. The peerage holds 
Birth Into Death
A curious custom, observed by many Ventrue and 
even a few Kindred outside the clan, is the recognition 
of one’s deathnight (as opposed to birthday). While 
some Ventrue find the observance of such things need-
lessly vain, most enjoy the ritual, both for its pomp and 
for the opportunity to host or patronize a party. The 
practice has come very much into vogue in the Final 
Nights, as it allow the Kindred to forget for a time the 
impending prophecies of Gehenna that many spend 
so much effort on ignoring. Sires may throw lavish 
fetes for their childer, elders host grand soirees at their 
estates and even a few princes have been known to 
step down for a brief period, allowing a toastmaster to 
spoof them and become prince for a night.


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
51
its sires responsible for its childer for quite a while, until 
the neonate has completed the agoge, in fact. During this 
extended training session, the neonate often dwells with 
the sire or in a haven the sire provides. A few promising 
individuals do strike out on their own, but even they find 
themselves under what feels like constant supervision.
Even as the sire continues to test and train her childe, 
the other clan members may well step in to “help.” The 
new Ventrue often spends at least some time with many 
local members of the clan. Even fellow Ventrue who feel 
personal enmity toward the neonate’s sire join in schooling 
the fledgling occasionally. Each lectures and then tests the 
neonate, who must receive the Blue Bloods’ approval before 
moving on. This process usually takes several months, and 
sometimes years (depending upon how many Ventrue 
participate and how thorough they are), but it gives the 
neonate a broad perspective of the clan and a basic un-
derstanding of the “corporation’s” holdings and influence 
within the city. At this point, the Ventrue is still excluded 
from Board meetings and other clan gatherings, but their 
sires often apprise them of clan business.
The Test
Finally, the sire poses a challenge to the neonate. The 
young Kindred must go forth on her own and establish 
a domain of influence within the city without the assis-
tance of any other Ventrue. Doing so can mean setting 
up a moneymaking arrangement with some industry or 
corporation; it can entail establishing contacts and influ-
ences within some political or governmental institution 
or for the truly daring; it can also mean earning a boon 
from another Kindred in the city.
The neonate has total freedom as long as she operates 
within the Traditions and, equally importantly, does not 
impinge upon any other Ventrue’s sphere of influence 
(unless said Ventrue chooses not to participate in the 
agoge, in which case the neonate doesn’t really need 
his approval). This last restriction can make the final 
test quite difficult, especially in cities where other clan 
members have already claimed many of the choice op-
portunities. When the neonate is finished, she declares 
her victory to her sire. The sire judges for herself whether 
the neonate has succeeded. Only if she agrees does she 
recommend the neonate to the praetor and Gerousia. She 
is then scheduled to appear before the entire clan at the 
next full Board meeting.
Coming Out
Finally, the neonate stands before her assembled 
clanmates and tutors. She then gives a full accounting of 
herself, clan traditions, history and how she met the final 
challenge. Ritual then has the assembled clan vote on 


Clanbook: Ventrue
52
whether the neonate should be accepted into the clan. 
In reality, only the dullest sire places a childe before the 
Board without first making sure that the Gerousia finds 
her acceptable. The assembled clan then assents to the 
Kindred’s acceptance unanimously (those still strongly 
opposed may remain silent if they wish). The praetor 
then asks the neonate a series of ritual questions devised 
by any Ventrue who cared to proffer one. In answering 
them, the neonate also recites her lineage and promises to 
uphold the traditions of both the clan and the Camarilla.
Once the formalities are finished, the celebration can 
begin. The acceptance of a new Kindred into the clan is a 
cause for great rejoicing among the Ventrue. Since the agoge 
practically guarantees that the new member has abilities 
and talents that can benefit the clan’s accounts, it means 
that the Ventrue as a whole have just grown that much 
stronger. They have one more committed (albeit young) 
ally to turn to when times grow dangerous. The celebra-
tion, complete with rare blood of the neonate’s preference 
as well as other entertainments, usually lasts through the 
rest of the night. These parties are, as one might expect, 
usually Ventrue-only affairs, held in the most exclusive 
venues and attended under high security. (One headstrong 
prince is rumored to have brought his Malkavian lover to 
one, but the rumor is terribly vague on where.) Surrounded 
by such opulence, wealth and power, the newly accepted 
clan member cannot help but feel that she is now part of 
something very special indeed. Surrounded by so much 
blood and so many walking corpses, most cannot help 
but feel they are also part of something very malignant.
On Their Own
Once the party concludes, the neonate returns to her 
temporary haven for one last day. From the next night for-
ward, her fate is her own. The other Ventrue no longer hold 
her sire responsible for her actions and mistakes. Although 
many develop strong ties to their sires, neonates may now 
deal and compete with anyone, inside or out of the clan. 
Having passed the final test, she has a domain to call her 
own, a base upon which to build both her dignitas and 
holdings. It is a heady, wonderful feeling for a short while.
Then reality sets in. She soon begins to realize that 
the pleasantries and camaraderie of the coming-out 
party have disappeared and that the cruel, hard facts 
of Ventrue internal politics now predominate. Nightly, 
the unquenchable thirst for vitae rises in her gorge. As 
a neonate, she has no power and no rank. She needs 
allies, connections and arrangements to help get ahead. 
The struggle that was unlife in the agoge suddenly pales 
compared to the fierce freedom that surrounds her. But 
she is up to the challenge; she no doubt relishes it. After 
all, it is in her blood. She is Ventrue.
Protocol and 
Manners
Anger is impolitic. Impoliteness is a sin.
The Ventrue take etiquette very seriously, especially 
when interacting with one another. Dealing with coarser 
Kindred sometimes requires less dignified speech pat-
terns, but discourse with one’s own esteemed colleagues 
should always be as respectful and elegant as possible. 
After all, you would expect nothing less from them.
Respect drives the myriad Ventrue protocols. A 
Kindred’s dignitas demands that others accord it to him 
and that he, in turn, accord it to everyone else whose 
dignitas demands it (which is to say almost anyone else 
of Ventrue blood, or at least members of the peerage). A 
dignified, proper Ventrue would never dream of insulting 
openly or even snubbing a clan member in good stand-
ing. Those sentiments are best left deep in the discourse’s 
subtext. Only when a Ventrue has shamed himself do 
his erstwhile peers unload their scathing comments and 
biting remarks in response, an act in which they take 
malicious glee, if only because of its rarity.
The Laws of Decorum
As a clan devoted to proud detail and tradition, 
the Ventrue have managed to accumulate a code of 
conduct large enough to fill several weighty tomes (not 
that they have ever collected them thus). “Suggestions” 
can be found that govern everything from what color 
clothing to wear at Board meetings (dark blue, gray or, 
if you must, black) to what kinds of presents to give 
at deathnight celebrations (expensive but not gaudy 
jewelry is fine, antiques from the Kindred’s Embrace 
date are gauche — except when they aren’t…). All 
together, these rules work remarkably well at a) making 
the clan seem very stodgy indeed, and b) making sure 
that the clan members don’t let their egos embroil them 
into bloody, frenzied brawls with their clanmates. All 
agree that avoiding “b” makes “a” a small price to pay. 
Presented here are some of the more important and 
commonly applicable rules by which Ventrue behave. 
The most important rule of all, though, is to make sure 
that one is never caught breaking one of these gentle 
suggestions openly.
Greetings and Casual Conversation
Always address another Kindred by his title, if he 
has one. If he has multiple titles, address him by Cama-
rilla title rather than clan title in mixed company. A 
Ventrue with no title is addressed by his surname (e.g. 
Mr. Rubin, Ms. DeKoonieg).


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
53
When the agenda is complete, attendees can suggest 
topics for the next meeting for the chair’s consideration. 
Do not interrupt; do not joke at another’s expense. 
No shouting and no base language is ever appropriate. 
Tempers will remain in complete control. Meetings are 
most solemn, and not a venue for levity.
Public Appearances
Ventrue should always dress and comport themselves 
with the utmost dignity in public, no matter the time 
of night or situation.
One should never disagree with one’s elder in public, 
especially when lesser Kindred are about.
Following that, one should never disagree with 
one’s equals or juniors in public either. Always show 
the world a united front.
Never speak of clan business to outsiders under any 
circumstances.
Treat other Camarilla Kindred, no matter their 
clan, with as much respect as you would expect them to 
show you. Do not sink to their level, nor allow yourself 
to be baited into exchanging taunts with a rapscallion 
or anything else so unseemly.
Disciplines
Do not enforce your will or charms upon another 
member of Clan Ventrue unless absolutely necessary.
If the fellow Ventrue in question is in good standing 
with his peers, it is hard to conceive of a time when it 
would be absolutely necessary.
Eavesdropping upon another’s thoughts, defiling 
their memories or toying with their emotions are all 
quite rude, but sometimes necessary if one’s subject is 
not a Ventrue.
Should an elder demand access to your mind and 
he is within his rights to do so, do not resist. 
Only a prince, justicar, praetor or strategos (or ephor 
should one such as you meet one) is ever within his 
rights to demand access to your mind.
Assistance
Come to a Ventrue’s aid when he asks. This Ethic 
of Succor is inviolable. 
Never begrudge or besmirch a clanmate who asks 
for aid. It is his right and your duty.
Never call for aid unless you actually need it. Es-
teemed Kindred have little tolerance for wasting time. 
One does not remind another of his previous requests 
for succor in casual conversation. 
Remember that you, too, might be in need of your 
clan’s assistance one night, and act accordingly.
Shake a man’s hand, kiss a woman’s. Women should 
simply let their hands be kissed by men and kiss fellow 
women on the right cheek.
Defer to your elders in all things. Wait for them to 
acknowledge you before speaking.
Never interrupt another clanmate while he speaks, 
even if you are his elder.
Never take offense when an elder interrupts you, 
even if it is rude.
Always look into an elder’s eyes when speaking or 
listening to him. Doing so shows not only interest, but 
trust that he will not use the gifts of Caine upon you.
Personal affairs and business interests are best left 
as just that — personal — unless a Kindred opens the 
discussion himself. 
Other Kindred are not nearly so interested in your 
personal achievements as you think they should be. 
Crowing shows crassness.
Do not raise your voice, use expletives or otherwise 
debase the discourse.
That said, avoid conversation on the modern 
“Inter Net.”
A Ventrue’s blood preferences are a private matter. 
One never asks.
Clan and Board Meetings
The highest-ranking Ventrue in the meeting presides 
over it. If  two attendees have the same title, the eldest 
Kindred takes precedence. If the eldest defers, do not 
challenge him on his deference.
A younger assistant (usually an aedile) actually con-
ducts the meeting, listing off the points on the agenda, 
recognizing speakers and otherwise taking care of the 
minutiae. This arrangement allows the presiding Ventrue 
to ignore the organizational details and concentrate on 
the greater issues at hand (or simply sleep through the 
meeting if he so chooses).
The agenda is always set beforehand and made 
available to all attendees. The presiding Ventrue must 
approve any variations from that agenda.
As each matter is brought before the body, the lowest-
ranking Kindred always speak first on a matter. Elders or 
those of equal standing may interrupt the speaker politely 
to ask questions or make comments. Those of lower rank 
must wait until the speaker finishes and then address any 
questions not to the speaker but to the Ventrue conduct-
ing (not presiding over) the meeting.
If a vote is called for, the body votes as it spoke, 
from lowest to highest rank. Secret ballots may be cast, 
at the presiding Ventrue’s discretion.


Clanbook: Ventrue
54
Difficulties and 
Disputes
The Ventrue show a united front to the rest of the 
world — or at least they pretend to. They claim unity of 
spirit and purpose as a single great clan organized toward 
lofty goals, such as upholding the Camarilla. Their strict 
internal etiquette helps promote this image. Always 
considerate, always politic, the Ventrue seem ice-cold 
in their self-control and clan discipline. The truth, as 
one might imagine, is quite different. The Ventrue have 
internal difficulties and rivalries as divisive and passionate 
as any clan or sect in the Kindred world. The childer of 
Caine are emotional, jealous, ambitious and monstrous 
individuals by nature. Add into this volatile mix the 
Ventrue obsession over personal dignitas, and it’s a wonder 
the whole clan doesn’t tear itself apart.
To date, however, the Ventrue haven’t torn them-
selves apart, chiefly because most have the sense to 
realize that they’re better off together than fractured. 
Thus the stifling etiquette, inflexible hierarchy and 
internal mechanisms for dispute resolution. All of these 
factors help the Ventrue work together and not only 
survive as a clan but thrive. However, problems simmer 
constantly just beneath the surface, waiting to embroil 
the Blue Bloods in numerous deadly Jyhads.
The Courts
The Ventrue decided long ago that they needed 
an impartial forum in which to settle disputes between 
clanmates without violence. Likewise, they needed a 
system that would preserve the dignitas of both sides, 
reducing (if not eliminating) the bitter acrimony that 
ensues whenever two Kindred come into conflict. These 
concerns resulted in the current Ventrue court system, an 
ad hoc dispute-resolution forum that combines one part 
debate, one part arbitration and one part showmanship.
The clan maintains no permanent courts or judges. 
Instead, anyone within the chain of command — which 
is to say, anyone recognized as a peer or greater — can 
petition his superiors to convene a court as the need arises. 
Before a court comes into being, all the parties must agree 
to it. One Ventrue cannot normally force another to 
come to court. Only the ephors can compel compliance 
thus. However, an elder in the clan may suggest that 
the two disputants resolve the issue among their peers, 
a suggestion that wise Ventrue heed without complaint.
The two disputants then agree upon someone to 
preside over the hearing. If feasible, this arbiter should 
be someone who outranks both of them, but someone of 
equal rank can serve in a pinch. Few Ventrue of dignitas 
would agree to have a lower-ranking Kindred preside over 
them. The arbiter convenes the court, which traditionally 
lasts just one evening. Any Ventrue in the area can attend, 
and when two powerful Kindred contend, the gallery is 
usually full, sometimes hosting guests from hundreds of 
miles away. What follows is a structured debate in which 
each Ventrue can make his case, call witnesses and display 
his rhetorical skills.
Ventrue cite historical precedent to bolster their 
case, relying upon research-minded compatriots to cite 
the tradition on which they depend if they can’t find it 
themselves. A Ventrue must always speak for himself, and 
he can neither use an advocate, nor consult with others 
while the court is in session. The arbiter may not ask her 
own questions, although the disputants may question 
one another in turn. In order to avoid impolite, possibly 
insulting queries, all questions are addressed to the arbi-
ter who then rephrases them for their intended subject.
When all is said and done, the Ventrue lay their 
dispute at the arbiter’s feet. She then withdraws to 
consider the case before her. It is forbidden for anyone, 
even an ephor, to communicate with an arbiter while 
she deliberates. The court convenes again on the fol-
lowing night, and the arbiter delivers her judgment. Her 
decision is not binding unless the two disputants agree. 
Disagreeing, however, is considered a grave challenge 
to the arbiter’s dignitas as well as duplicitous on the 
disputant’s part. After all, he already agreed to abide by 
the arbiter’s decision. Only the most foolish of Ventrue 
would ever ignore a court’s decision unless he had ab-
solute proof that someone had tainted or corrupted the 
process. Even then, he would probably be better served 
by petitioning a new arbiter for a secondary court. 
The Young and 
the Old
How does one succeed to higher rank in the hierar-
chy if none of her superiors ever retires? The short answer 
is that she doesn’t. She achieves that rank on her own 
or hopes that someone is unlucky enough to meet Final 
Death. That’s the price one pays for an eternal unlife.
This glass ceiling is the most common complaint 
voiced by members of the clan by far. The young Ven-
true have no place to go and no room to advance. All 
the choice domains are taken. Whatever shall they 
do? The elders hear these same complaints time and 
again. Other clans, especially loosely knit ones like 
the Brujah or Malkavians tease the Ventrue neonates 
for it constantly. The neonates themselves feel stifled 
and repressed. Oh, what a burden to be a neonate in 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
55
the Camarilla’s most prominent clan, an immortal who 
can bend minds to his will and cow mortals with but a 
thought. Can anyone imagine anything worse?
The fact of the matter is, it has always been thus 
within the clan, and it will no doubt always be thus. This 
problem is one that Kindred of every clan face, but the 
effects exacerbate under the strict Ventrue hierarchy, in 
which the ambition to achieve ever-greater heights burns 
so much stronger. Still, the clan has survived this trial 
for millennia; certainly it can continue to do so tonight. 
So say the elders.
The elders might not be correct any longer, though. 
The world has changed in recent years, and new challenges 
face the Blue Bloods. The most important difference is in 
the kind of kine who become Kindred. The 21st century 
is not a patient time. Ambitious, powerful people expect 
results not this decade but this year. The Ventrue “youths” 
want more and more — and they want it sooner.
Furthermore, more Ventrue stalk the night now than 
ever before. Part of this growth is natural, since popula-
tions of Kindred and kine have grown increasingly over 
the centuries. Part is not. With increasing incursions 
by the Sabbat, the Camarilla’s loss of the stalwart Clan 
Gangrel and the generally hysterical mood among the 
Kindred, Ventrue have been Embracing new Kindred 
in record numbers. This indiscretion creates more foot 
soldiers to do their elders’ business and enforce its agenda, 
but those foot soldiers are ambitious, and they won’t stay 
satisfied servants forever.
Search for Solution
The youth versus age problem perseveres not only 
because of elder apathy but also because of a centuries-
long quest to find an answer. Quite simply, the problem 
seems intractable. The established Ventrue have no need 
or desire to relinquish what they have, and the up-and-
coming “progressives” have no need or desire to curb their 
ambitions. Many credit the stern Ventrue hierarchy, the 
clan’s impeccable manners and blind adherence to tradition 
with staving off bloodshed and internal conflict for so long.
The only immediately feasible solution, one that has 
worked in the past, is for these young Ventrue to find new 
forums for achievement. Young Ventrue tend to rush 
(although not without planning and forethought) into 
newly open markets or areas of influence. In doing so, they 
have a distinct advantage over other clans seeking the 
same prizes; the Ventrue have the might of their whole 
clan in support. The elders encourage their youth actively 
to expand the clan’s holdings wherever and whenever 
they can. The clan’s power not only grows, but the youth 
no longer complain about the lack of opportunities. The 
Internet, global commerce, new technologies and even 
the evolution of previously valueless markets all provide 
a fertile bounty of resources for innovative and quick-
thinking Blue Bloods.
Other, more extreme options have been employed 
from time to time. When a young Ventrue becomes 
too ambitious or too vociferous in his complaints, a 
world-weary elder might decide that enough is enough. 
No, Final Death is not the (usual) answer, but a blood 
bond can be. The most volatile Ventrue meet this fate, 
often before they even realize what has happened. (It 
is remarkably easy for a Kindred to discern a particular 
Ventrue’s feeding preferences.) Blood bonding a fellow 
Ventrue forcibly is a serious offense, though, and neither 
party is liable to retain his dignitas should he resort to 
such manipulation of the Curse of Caine. Furthermore, 
only the ephors can authorize such treatment. Ultimately, 
most Ventrue consider this measure a last-resort, useful 
only in the most extreme cases.
The Outsiders
Some people just don’t react well to others. Occa-
sionally some Kindred refuse to play along, despite the 
choosy sire, the rigorous agoge and their gracious (at least 
to their faces) Ventrue peerage. They want no part in 
Camarilla politics or clan hierarchies. They don’t give a 
rat’s ass about dignitas. Thrilled (or sometimes crushed) to 
be undying — and unwilling to work within the system 
— they strike out on their own. The Ventrue quickly 
disavow these malcontents, often referring to them as 
caitiff or, in some cases, antitribu (although this last is 
not always technically true).
A Ventrue who disdains his clan cannot expect any 
of the traditions, rights or benefits accorded to members in 
good standing if he makes a public display of his bitterness. 
Not only may clanmates refuse assistance to an outsider, 
they often go out of their way to make unlife more difficult 
for him. Although the Camarilla’s Traditions still apply to 
him — protecting him from breaches of the Masquerade, 
and such — enterprising Ventrue usually find some way 
to take care of such troublemakers. Almost half disappear 
within a year of their renunciation of the clan and its 
precepts, either because they fled of their own accord or 
because their former brethren resolved the issue for them. 
Redemption always remains an option if the Ventrue 
shows true contrition and throws himself entirely at a 
merciful Ventrue’s feet. Often a blood bond or a step to-
ward one is part of the bargain. Even then, it takes a long 
while to earn the Ventrue trust once it is thrown away. 
Still, more than a few outsiders return to the fold in time, 
realizing that the Ventrue do indeed have much to offer, 
camaraderie and protection being more scarce amid a 
world of predators than they first imagined.


Clanbook: Ventrue
56
Cliques
Aside from their established hierarchy, Ventrue also 
organize themselves along their own social lines. Clan-
mates with similar interests find one another, not only 
within a city but around the world. Although Ventrue 
seldom actually like or trust one another, they do see the 
value in social gatherings, both to keep current with news 
and trends and to make important contacts. It is easier 
to gather when one has some common interest with 
her peers, for the Kindred has something to distract her 
from the disgust, hate, anger, envy or general mistrust 
she probably feels toward the other Kindred in the room.
Vintage Clubs
As Kindred of rarefied tastes, Ventrue appreciate 
the subtle differences in vitae, even within the strict 
confines of their restrictions. All kine are not equal, 
and different bodies provide blood as varied as the 
wines from different vineyards. Just as a first-growth 
Bordeaux is incomparably better than a supermarket jug 
wine, so, too, a human who has lived and eaten well or 
particularly exemplifies a certain type produces vitae far 
more succulent than a less desirable vessel.
Ventrue tend to keep their blood proclivities a private 
matter, but individuals with similar preferences become 
aware of one another inevitably. In densely populated re-
gions like Western Europe or the East Coast of the United 
States, Ventrue with the same restrictions sometimes 
come together to share particularly choice vessels. Called 
vintage clubs, these groups of Ventrue meet irregularly, 
usually for purely social reasons (although politics and 
business invariably creep into the affairs) or even for the 
sole purpose of savoring a delectable selection.
Individual vintage clubs usually meet in secrecy, even 
from other Ventrue, and they seldom consist of more than 
half a dozen members. The group’s patrons often compete 
with one another to see who can bring the most succulent 
vitae to the “dinner.” Some of the older groups that have 
been meeting for centuries even go so far as to actually 
breed and cultivate vessels for flavor. For instance, an 
Italian group that feeds only on the descendants of Sic-
ily’s Moorish conquerors has within its ranks a wealthy 
Kindred who has contrived for himself a public image as 
a philanthropist with an interest in history. He chooses 
young children based on breeding, heritage and lifestyle 
and adopts them or sets up trust funds for them until they 
mature to a ripe age and are fit to drink.
One may join a vintage club group by invitation 
only, of course. Only those who have a proven record for 
discretion as well as a sensitive palate for fine blood can 
ever hope to meet their exclusive ranks. The great secrecy 
attached to membership means that few Ventrue outside 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
57
a group even know that the cliques exist. Since members 
inevitably form bonds of kinship or at least camaraderie, 
they often make hidden allegiances and deals of which 
other Ventrue and Kindred cannot easily be aware.
Chess Societies
Many Ventrue love chess, not only as a game, but 
as a metaphor for life and unlife. Elder Kindred often 
refer to mortals as pawns, to political gambits as moves, 
to victory over a rival as checkmate, and so on. Even 
the wicked Lasombra acknowledge the Ventrue’s love 
for “the game of kings.” The game itself has a cultural 
and intellectual mystique that feeds the Ventrue ego 
and sensibility. It is a game of absolute strategy in which 
randomness plays no role. If only existence from night 
to night could operate thus.
Metaphors and wishful thinking aside, many Ventrue 
enjoy just playing the game. In many cities, Kindred 
often come together for an evening to play and social-
ize. Periodic chess nights, often held in Elysium, offer a 
chance for Kindred to come together, scheme, chat and 
test their mastery in a controlled environment with their 
favorite allegorical board game at hand.  When Ventrue 
play (as with all things), it is considered bad form, a loss 
of face, to become too emotionally involved in a game 
or to trumpet one’s victory. Although the Kindred might 
seethe inside, showing outward emotion — be it joy or 
sorrow — is a sure sign of a pedestrian nature. 
Becoming active in the Ventrue chess community 
takes commitment. One must spend a great deal of time 
becoming very good at the game just to stay on the same 
level as the other players. Playing poor chess is as gauche 
as wearing a black belt with brown shoes or not holding a 
wine glass by the stem. If you come to play, you had best 
play well. For those who do play, matches can become 
terribly important. Chess master Ventrue often settle 
disputes over a game rather than by duel or clan trial. It’s 
far better to test a matter on the completely fair board 
than in the vagaries of battle or a political undertaking.
Although victories in the games parlor do not com-
pare ultimately to true triumphs in the world at large, 
Ventrue do attach serious dignitas to high-caliber games 
and respect those who play well. For the most part, the 
Ventrue look down upon other games, even equally chal-
lenging and distinguished ones like Go. Chess has the 
combination of style, Western tradition and grace that 
Ventrue value. It is, as they see it, their game.
Olympians
For most Ventrue, the kine are, individually, some-
thing not worth considering. They are cogs in the great 
and terrible machine of humanity. As such, many members 
of the clan (particularly the elders) take no small delight 
in manipulating humans for their own amusement. They 
pit humans against one another like emperors with their 
gladiators, or as many prefer to think of it, as the gods 
pitted Greeks against Trojans. Thus, Ventrue argot has 
come to term such Kindred Olympians, not for their god-
like stature but rather for their penchant for sometimes 
petty but usually interesting diversions.
Not being actual gods of ancient cultures (for the most 
part), Ventrue seldom grow so capable or influential as to 
pit entire nations against one another. For amusement, 
they usually settle for individuals. Olympian groups meet 
as they will, sometimes coming together every decade or 
two for a game, sometimes engaging in contests that go 
on for years. Their sport comes in two types: man versus 
man or man versus the world. In the former, each Kindred 
chooses a single human as his or her champion. They then 
try and influence events so that their pawn wins over their 
rivals’ pawns. This trial is seldom something so obvious 
or unrefined as an actual gladiatorial contest or a fight 
to the death. Rather, the contests usually revolve around 
matters like achieving success in some business venture, 
procuring victory in a legal matter, or even influencing 
the outcome of political contests.
In a man-versus-the-world contest, one Ventrue takes 
the side of the player. The unfortunate kine caught up in 
the game finds himself beset by all the trials of Job and 
more as the other Olympians strive to bring him down, 
be it financially, legally, mentally, socially, or all of these 
combined. The sole Ventrue defending the kine does 
what she can to help him survive for a preordained time. 
Olympians often wager heavily on such contests — not 
only money, but influence, boons, status and even more 
rare commodities.
More than a few Ventrue find the Olympians’ ac-
tivities distasteful and even dangerous. However, since a 
number of elder and respected clan members enjoy these 
contests from time to time, they continue unabated. 
As long as no Traditions are broken — particularly the 
Masquerade — and no Ventrue interests are harmed, 
the clan as a whole considers the Olympians pastime 
innocuous if unpleasantly jaded. After all, the lives of a 
few kine matter little to the world as a whole. 
Philosophes
As a rule, Ventrue do not spend much time ponder-
ing the imponderable. They have important affairs in the 
temporal world that require attention. Some, however, 
find or make the time to sit down with their fellow Ventrue 
and discuss the more esoteric aspects of existence. Meet-
ing as it suits them, these armchair philosophers usually 
spend their time hashing over the same old concepts that 
Kindred have argued about for millennia. What are we? 


Clanbook: Ventrue
58
Who was Caine? Are we Damned? What of our one-time 
humanity? And so on and so forth.
Where Ventrue philosophy groups different from 
many Kindred thinkers is that the Ventrue usually try 
to find practical applications for their discussions and 
conclusions. They spend a great deal of time arguing back 
and forth about concepts like obligation, duty, divine 
right and dignitas; all of which play an important role 
in Ventrue society. Philosophes can provide the moral 
and intellectual authority for a prince or other power 
to act in some cases, or they might provide the moral 
basis that affects the outcome of a peer trial. Much 
like mortal churches sanctioned crusades and wars, a 
persuasive philosophy can give an elder the justification 
to strike out at his enemies or consolidate his power.
Seldom do enough philosophically minded Ventrue 
make their havens in a single city to form such groups. 
Rather, the members travel on occasion to meet and 
discuss issues, while exchanging thoughts by letter (or 
possibly e-mail) when not in each other’s company. 
These circles of thinkers can come to have significant but 
subtle influence within a region if their members provide 
potent enough philosophical proofs. One of the most 
famous groups, the British Lantern Club, is now widely 
credited with conceiving of most of the clan’s policies in 
England throughout the 17th and 18th centuries. Their 
power fell only when others came to realize that they 
had it. The princes resented them as meddlers, and, in 
a fit of reactionary thought, they took to rejecting out 
of hand any idea the Lantern Club proposed. This pat-
tern seems to hold true. Ventrue philosophes can wield 
influence up until the moment others realize they have 
it. Then it vanishes or is accounted for in other ways….
Gossips
It might span the globe and cross cultures, but Kindred 
society is actually quite small in comparison to the mortal 
world. As a sub-set of the vampiric whole, Ventrue society 
is that much smaller and closer. Additionally, Clan Ven-
true is one of the most integrated clan cultures aside from 
the Tremere, and it seems like a group of individuals who 
either know everyone else or at least know someone who 
does. Three degrees of separation might be more than one 
needs to connect this noble clan’s members to one another.
As anyone who’s attended a school or worked in an 
office knows, familiarity breeds not only contempt, but 
gossip. Despite their noble airs and impeccable manners, 
Ventrue can and do tell tales as often as any other group of 
social beings. Indeed, gossip within this clan achieves levels 
outstripped by only the acid-tongued Toreador. Of course, 
as with most matters Ventrue, clan gossip usually has some 
practical application and revolves around topics of politics, 
business and dignitas rather than who’s sharing blood with 
whom and who Embraced her rival’s protégé out of spite.
Groups of gossips (sometimes referred to derisively as 
“gaggles”) exist throughout the clan’s every level. Con-
sisting of loose alliances between acquaintances, brood 
siblings and business contacts, the Ventrue grapevine 
spreads rumor and fact with nearly as much abandon 
as the Internet, and it has done so for millennia. The 
members of such groups might not even trust or like one 
another, but many subscribe to the common belief that 
sharing information benefits all. Most Ventrue try to join 
at least one such circle, and some of the best-connected 
Kindred participate in dozens.
The exchange of information usually takes place at 
casual social gatherings, but it is also carried on by more 
impersonal means such as messenger, letter, phone call 
or e-mail. Society dictates no rules or obligations or set 
standards for such groups. Rather, by mutual understanding, 
the members agree to share what they learn. The unspoken 
truth is that no one expects a member to reveal something 
if doing so is against his own interest. Of course, the mere 
fact that it might inconvenience a fellow member seldom 
prevents others in the group from revealing such secrets. 
Such is the harsh unlife of the rumor-monger.
Diplomats
As a clan, the Ventrue have a problem when it 
comes to fulfilling their self-proclaimed role as leaders in 
Kindred society. For the most part, they don’t much like 
other Kindred. Pleased with themselves, their own ethos 
and their clan’s good manners and form, many Ventrue 
have little patience for Caine’s lesser get. They observe 
protocols as well as they can, or at least as well as they 
have to. However, more open-minded Ventrue seek out 
the other clans and do their best to build bridges between 
the leaders and the followers. The clan refers to them 
collectively as the diplomats.
The diplomats do not organize into groups but rather 
consist of like-minded Ventrue throughout all echelons 
of the clan. They seldom have formal or even informal 
gatherings, although they do tend to keep each other 
apprised of their efforts and successes. Their status is 
entirely unofficial, and the appellation “diplomat” is 
never used outside clan-only conversations. Even then, 
its most common use includes a liberal dose of irony or 
derision. As far as the rest of Kindred society is concerned, 
they are simply gracious, maybe overly talkative Ventrue.
What do diplomats do then? They make contacts, 
pure and simple. They show the rest of the Camarilla that 
the Ventrue are not all stiff-shirted snobs who care about 
nothing but their own power, position and prestige. These 
outgoing Ventrue ask other clans what they think, listen 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
59
to their complaints and concerns and offer to pass them 
on to the preeminent Blue Bloods. Although they have no 
official power and their loyalties likely remain consistent 
with other Ventrue, offering a word of kindness to the less-
favored clans helps the Ventrue smooth over some of the 
feathers they tend to ruffle in the course of a night’s work.
One does not train to become a diplomat, or even set 
out to do so. Diplomats simply develop naturally, when a 
particular Kindred finds himself relating to those of other 
clans better than one might expect. Elders notice this 
kind of behavior. One might ask the Ventrue to keep up 
his contacts, or in fact to broaden them and thus become 
a kind of de facto representative-cum-public-relations 
figure for the clan. In effect, the Ventrue becomes a low-
key, high-class evangelist for his clan. He becomes the 
accessible one to whom the other clans can talk.
Diplomats tend to share a unique world view, and 
they succeed with one another much better than they do 
other Ventrue. They tend to obsess about public image 
and argue against courses of action that might make the 
clan less popular with its fellow Camarilla members. They 
often work together and exchange notes and references 
in order to accomplish the greater goal of stabilizing the 
Ventrue position among the clans. For example, a Ventrue 
with particularly good relations with Clan Brujah might 
well help a fellow who needs some help avoiding the ire of 
a Brujah harpy, while he receives a valuable reference to 
the Nosferatu in return. While frequent association with 
outsiders sometimes casts a shadow on the individual’s 
reputation, the good he does the peerage when it needs 
it only helps increase his own dignitas eventually.
Innovators
It’s the constant complaint within the clan: The elders 
have a lock on power and influence; they’ve claimed the 
only worthwhile domains. The young have nowhere to go 
up the ladder unless someone meets Final Death, a fate no 
dignified Ventrue would wish upon another. In order to 
find a place for themselves and accrue whatever dignitas 
they can to their young stature, many younger Ventrue 
form their own private cliques that are part alliance for 
mutual advantage and part group for safety in numbers.
Elder and ancilla alike often refer to these groups 
as innovators — the former with some amusement, the 
latter with all sincerity. Innovators see themselves as 
the clan’s future (which is not necessarily true) and the 
cutting edge that can take the Ventrue where they need 
to go (which may well be true). In many cases, these 
groups have all the energy and intellectual fervor of a 
revolutionary cell or an entrepreneur. Giddy with their 
newfound power, eager to make their mark, they scheme 
and dream together in hopes of realizing their goals.
In many cases, these groups’ meetings become little 
more than bitch-sessions, a forum for young Ventrue to 
express their frustration without fear of offending their 
elders. More than most Ventrue social groups, innova-
tors often observe secrecy within their ranks. They hold 
the meetings to be as sacred as the confessional — or at 
least a non-disclosured board meeting. Without such a 
devotion to discretion, the groups would not serve their 
important cathartic role. Elders react to this need for 
privacy in various ways. Some use technology or spies to 
try to discover what goes on at meetings. Others, more 
assured of their power and position, let the neonates do as 
they please in this matter. They will grow out of it in time.
Indeed, almost all of them eventually do just that. 
Most Kindred start to distance themselves from innovator 
groups after a few years. By that time, they might have 
their own holdings, responsibilities and even childer to 
look after. Besides, no Ventrue of true standing associates 
herself with such youthful cliques, so if one wishes to appear 
strong, she must distance herself from the Young Turks.
Occasionally, however, a group of innovators does 
distinguish itself in some way, such as the West Coast 
group that managed to get an early footing in the computer 
industry over a decade ago, or the group that set out for 
the New World five centuries earlier. Once they have 
gained the prestige and dignitas they sought for so long, 
these successful few usually become exactly what they 
contested for so long: established Ventrue with holdings 
to manage and power to wield in the face of aspiring 
young innovators who would take it all for themselves.
Ventrue and the 
Mortal World
Ventrue, and all Kindred really, exist in two different 
worlds. First and foremost, they prowl the world of the 
Kindred and the clans, a world where sects and cities clash 
after dark; a world with which many Kindred, especially 
the Ventrue, spend much of their time and energy deal-
ing. They also stalk the mortal world, variously referred 
to as the real world, the sleeping world, the world of the 
Canaille or just plain humanity. It surrounds the Kindred, 
influences everything they do and, in fact, sets the stage 
for all their various struggles and triumphs. The mortals 
are the land Kindred walk upon, the money in their ac-
counts and, of course, the blood that sustains the undead. 
Without mortals, no vampiric world could exist at all, 
much as Kindred might wish to deny it.
The Ventrue are the first to admit to humanity’s power 
and importance in both realms. The whole Camarilla ex-
ists as a means to protect the Kindred from an awakened 


Clanbook: Ventrue
60
and vengeful beast known as humanity. The Inquisition 
taught this lesson well. At the same time, many Ventrue 
see Kindred as a whole as immeasurably superior to kine, 
and themselves in turn as superior to other Kindred (if not 
immeasurably so). How, then, do they reconcile the two 
opposed views that the humans must be feared and yet are 
worthy of little more than casual consideration? Simple. 
They respect the institutions while they ignore the man.
Such attitudes shock many Kindred. They claim that 
such belief is little better than that of the gore-spattered 
Sabbat, or they claim that the Kindred are not gods to toy 
with mortal lives. Such “soft-heartedness” usually meets 
with hand-waving and sneers. The Ventrue do not revile 
the mortal world — they accept it as a tool or defer to it 
as a necessary ritual to observe, much like mortals view 
eating food and eliminating wastes.
Institutional Potency
Humanity’s strength lies in its numbers. One-on-one, 
a human is little match for even the youngest Kindred. In 
groups, humans still might not match an elder’s fearsome 
powers. In armies, wild mobs and great social movements, 
though, nothing can stand in their way. The kine have a 
remarkable ability to work together, something of which 
few Kindred can boast. They submit themselves willingly 
to a greater goal, to a higher purpose or (at the very least) 
to a more powerful master. The Ventrue admire this one 
quality the kine possess: their ability to suspend their egos 
and ignore their own needs and desires.
In effect, the Ventrue try to do the very same thing 
with both their own clan and the Camarilla. Thus far, 
they have succeeded to a certain degree, but it is a con-
stant battle against chaos and individual avarice. The 
Camarilla lost the Gangrel just recently, a significant 
blow to the Ventrue’s most famous creation. Likewise, 
internecine struggles and interpersonal jealousies within 
the clan itself keep the clan from working as a whole 
in the way it could. Even the Tremere with their fabled 
hierarchy cannot come close to approximating the 
discipline, devotion and cooperative edge found in any 
given national armed force in the industrialized world.
Therefore, the Ventrue have great respect (and even 
fear) for human institutions. Although they might influ-
ence key individuals within a group, the group moves 
on with purpose and power. Subvert a local election, 
and Democracy continues. Pay off a member of law 
enforcement, and the justice system rolls on. Blackmail 
a priest, and the Church still thrives. Kill a soldier and 
another rises to take his place, gun blazing. The idea and 
institution comprises more than the sum of its parts, and 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
61
the Ventrue must acknowledge that power. Dealing with 
and blunting the force of such concentrated human force 
takes great effort, tremendous cunning and dauntless will. 
Ventrue have done it before, they have manipulated whole 
systems for their own purposes, but it is never easy. It is 
like playing with fire. If one is not supremely careful and 
aware, the fire will burn its master.
Individual Impotency
On the other hand, a single human is nothing. Un-
like many Sabbat, who see humans as mere food, the 
Ventrue have no respect for individuals because of their 
minds. The Ventrue excel at Disciplines that shape, alter 
and arrest the thoughts and feelings of others. No other 
clan compares to them when it comes to expertise in 
such matters. Even the youngest Ventrue learn quickly 
to influence and twist the human mind. Mature ancillae 
and elder Ventrue can quite literally control a kine’s every 
action or determine their every thought, should the need 
arise. How can one have any respect for someone whose 
very mind is yours to do with as you please?
This kind of arrogance comes naturally to the 
Ventrue, and they encourage it. A certain amount of self-
confidence, assurance in one’s own power and superiority 
is a valuable tool, especially when it comes to mind- and 
emotion-control techniques. The Ventrue must feel that 
he can conquer the kine intellect with ease if, indeed, 
he actually hopes to use his Disciplines effectively. This 
attitude serves only to heighten the Ventrue’s prejudices.
Clan culture reinforces the disdain toward individual 
kine. Ventrue seldom refer to humans by name unless 
absolutely necessary. Usually they speak about mortal 
affairs in terms of the institutions. “Chase Bank has some 
interesting new business possibilities,” or, “The mayor’s 
office reports that our proposal will pass.” When they do 
speak of individuals, it is usually by the person’s title, or his 
function if he has no title. “The police officer will not be a 
problem,” or, “My informant tells me there is a new supplier 
in the neighborhood.” Without names, the personalities 
become interchangeable. It does not matter what kine fills 
what role, as long as the Ventrue can pigeonhole where 
the kine fits within the greater human scheme.
Such is not to say that Ventrue ignore human beings 
as people entirely. Certainly, they are aware of names and 
even spend a great deal learning about the personalities, 
histories and foibles of influential mortals. However, they 
view all of these things through their lens of disdain. This 
particular human, weak like all humans, has these extra 
weaknesses and these extra strengths. Ultimately, though, 
“He is just a kine, and therefore his blood or property is 
mine should I choose to take it.”
Of Influence, Power 
and Control 
One of the most common misconceptions about the 
Ventrue, even within the younger ranks of the clan itself, 
is that they somehow control humanity. The idea that a 
few Kindred, no matter how powerful, could determine 
the course and fate of gigantic human institutions is bitterly 
laughable to the clan’s elders. They know just how far their 
powers can go and where they end. Perhaps a Ventrue prince 
really could determine everything that went on in his city 
once upon a time. However, the nights of fifth-generation 
Kindred ruling over Greek city-states of 30,000 citizens are 
long gone. Tonight, kine cities claim populations in the 
millions, nations in the hundreds of millions. Control over 
such masses can only be dreamed of, not realized.
Even on a local level — say, the police department or 
the city government — utter control cannot exist. One 
does not rise from his daily sleep and press the “arrest 
rival minions” button on some remote control. First of 
all, the Masquerade prevents any such overt seizure of 
power, but even if no such restriction existed, the task 
would defeat most. The kine know when something is 
not right on a grand scale. A few cops on the take or a 
politician who lets himself be photographed with a nose 
full of powder while bound in leather restraints are easy 
to come by and expected to a certain degree. Placing a 
whole system in the service of one Kindred or clan would 
send shock waves through that system, awakening that 
dangerous human impulse. Complete control, at least for 
more than a few brief nights, is not only nearly impossible 
to achieve, it’s a foolish desire to begin with.
Influence. The Ventrue truly understand and use 
influence. The fact of the matter is that control is more 
trouble than it’s worth most of the time. Even the Ventrue, 
who have so many business and other ties to the mortal 
world, do not really care about most of what humanity 
does with its days. Why try to control something, spend 
all that energy and time, on something that affects you 
maybe once a year — once a decade even? It’s better to 
have a few key levers in place, people you can put pressure 
on to make something bigger happen when you need it.
What, then, is influence? It’s knowing a clerk in the file 
room who is eager to pass on information in exchange for 
a few bucks or the keys to the boss’ Benz on the weekend. 
It’s having a janitor in your debt who has the keys to every 
door. It’s being able to make a payment into a numbered 
account and have a congressman vote no on a bill. It’s 
knowing the right prostitute who makes a cop think twice 
about reporting what he just saw. It might even be a cor-
porate executive who happens to be a ghoul, blood bound 
to you. Influence is subtle and relatively low-maintenance. 


Clanbook: Ventrue
62
You don’t need to spend your nights handling affairs in the 
mayor’s office, arms spread wide, talons clicking fiendishly. 
You just need to know you have an open nerve, a pressure 
you can apply when the time comes. 
Power and Powers
As for power, it is another word that has ceased to 
have meaning, or that has at least lost the meaning it 
once had. Power means quite literally the ability to do 
something, to make something happen. Any elder can 
tell you that the only power he truly has emanates from 
his person. The only thing you can ever be sure of is 
yourself. Your soldiers might flee, your contacts might 
disappear, and your agents might betray you. Aside from 
yourself, you don’t really control anyone. You can push 
them in a certain direction — maybe even push them 
really hard — but it is ultimately them, not you, who is 
doing “the thing” whatever it might be.
In the same way, the clan does pay a price when it 
uses its mental and emotional powers. Repeated use of 
Disciplines on a single subject set can have only two 
outcomes over time. The subjects either grow resentful, 
suspicious and dangerous, or they become complete 
emotional and mental thralls. The first is obviously 
undesirable, and the second is little better. Mortal tools 
who lose their initiative and free will are less versatile 
than their mentally capable counterparts, and they 
tend to rouse unwanted suspicion among friends and 
co-workers. Furthermore, using Disciplines takes time, 
energy and effort that the Ventrue could be using other 
places. Using vampiric powers also leaves telltale signs 
— signs that perceptive Kindred can read all too well. 
Why let the Tremere or the Sabbat know with whom and 
where your influence lies by using such heavy-handed 
tactics? Finally, it means that the clan has fallen to its 
last resort; that there was no more subtle way to handle 
the issue. Graceful Ventrue hate to eliminate options 
with such a vulgar “trump card.”
Instead, the wise Ventrue holds his power in reserve 
until it is needed most, waiting and watching for the 
precise moment when the smallest nudge of force can 
have the greatest effect. Until that moment comes, he 
uses other means. Having wealth aplenty, it is often 
easier to just outright buy the solution he wants. On 
the flip side, threatening someone’s ability to make 
money can prove an even greater motivational force. 
An exchange of simple favors, quid pro quo, can succeed 
where money cannot. Should these more reasonable 
methods fail, the threat of force (as opposed to its actual 
use) still has power to persuade. Only when other, less 
exposed and demanding options fail does a crafty Blue 
Blood turn to his arsenal to obtain his goals.
The Path to Power: A 
Ventrue Primer
How, then, does a young Ventrue strike this balance 
between carrot and stick that the elders seem to have 
achieved long ago? He learns the basics during the agoge, 
absorbing different takes on the issue depending on who’s 
doing the teaching. However, almost every member of the 
clan agrees upon some basics. With so many traditions, it is 
no wonder that the Ventrue have an “acceptable” path to 
power along with everything else. While not every Ventrue 
fledgling follows the course laid out here, many do. More-
over, most are measured according to just how well they do.
Establishing a Base
This process begins in the final stages of the agoge. 
The Ventrue sets out on his own to found a base for his 
future power and position. The first, most important 
thing a Ventrue must find for himself is a secure, com-
fortable and respectable haven. The peerage attaches 
great significance to the appointments that surround an 
individual Ventrue. One’s haven should be suitable for 
entertaining visits by elders, sires and clients alike (al-
though the first may never actually visit, their servants 
might). Mansions, penthouses, even private clubs are all 
acceptable. In addition to this very public (within the 
Kindred community at least) haven, a prudent Ventrue 
maintains a number of secret, secure havens. Indeed, 
some never sleep at their acknowledged “haven,” but 
maintain it just for appearances’ sake.
As far as possible, everything about a haven should 
be legal, paid for and have no strings attached. The less 
reason mortals have to look into the ownership and use 
of a building, the better. Many young Kindred take out 
traditional mortgages on their havens, both to avoid 
arousing suspicion and because they usually don’t have 
enough cash to outright buy a proper haven.
When it comes to negotiating price, having loans 
approved and other financial issues, a little discretion 
goes a long way. Totally mesmerizing a realtor into selling 
a Kindred the home for a quarter of its value will raise 
suspicions, but a few polite words and entrancing smiles 
can let him know the absolute lowest price and perhaps 
bump that down a little more. It can also ensure that the 
seller favors the Kindred, no matter who else might be 
interested in the property.
These abilities come in useful later as well, particularly 
when a Kindred has made certain security and light-proofing 
alterations to the building that he would prefer the local 
building inspector ignore or forget. The same is true of 
contractors who help build secret chambers or install secu-
rity systems. Wholesale memory wipes raise questions and 
suspicions. Bribing the contractors, renovating a “rumpus 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
63
room” in the basement instead of a “sealed vampire sep-
ulchre,” take more tact but pay off in the end. Likewise, 
contractors tend to do the work faster and cheaper for 
someone whose mien doesn’t involve voice-mail tirades 
or threats of unholy supernatural power.
Securing Sustenance
Having established a place to sleep, the Ventrue 
must next look to the matter of blood. For Ventrue, more 
than any clan, doing so is a real challenge. The feeding 
restriction can make one’s unlife very difficult. Moreover, 
when one’s enemies discover the true nature of these 
restrictions, matters can grow quite dire. Every young 
Ventrue should establish a steady herd from which he 
can feed and an emergency supply on which to fall back.
Establishing a herd takes time and effort. The 
larger the pool of possible candidates the better, so the 
pragmatic Ventrue finds as many excuses as possible to 
fraternize with the appropriate mortals. Doing so often 
involves devoting time and resources to causes, clubs 
and social groups in which the Kindred might not oth-
erwise be interested. Crafty Ventrue always find a way 
to turn this expense to some advantage. Indeed they 
must, for if others see the Ventrue lounging about with 
a particular set of mortals for no obvious benefit, they 
can deduce the true cause easily.
In order to hide their blood proclivities from inquisitive 
Kindred, many Ventrue try to find some larger social group 
or cause that their required blood type associates with as 
well. Since the Ventrue have so many contacts with mortal 
society, many interact with so many different groups that 
it is hard to pinpoint any one as their food source. It is also 
common sense for Ventrue to pretend or allude to feed-
ing on individuals from whom they could never actually 
imbibe, thus further occluding their need’s true nature. 
As a last resort, every Ventrue should have the right 
blood type on hand in a secure place or person. Having a 
trusted personal assistant can help satisfy this need. Most 
also keep the right kind of blood stored in reserve at their 
havens. For those who can afford it, the best option is 
to keep the right type of person under lock and key in 
one’s haven, always available. A few cruel Ventrue have 
even had their vessels put into induced comas and stored 
away in hospital-like pantries. One had best hide such 
emergency resources well, though, not only to secure the 
blood but also to avoid unwanted, prying mortals from 
wondering just what those bodies are doing there, anyway.
The Importance of Money
Often, but not always, Ventrue come into unlife with 
some resources of their own. However, while a two-story 
house and four-car garage may impress the guys at work, 


Clanbook: Ventrue
64
they mean little to a clan of millionaires. It’s time to 
leave the office and the 401(k) and start acquiring some 
serious investment capital.
Money is very important to the Ventrue. It serves some 
of the same place keepers for the clan that it does in mortal 
society: It’s a measure of status, power and accomplishment. 
A Ventrue is not successful unless he has great wealth, or so 
it seems. At the same time, it’s not important at all. Most 
Ventrue, especially the higher-ranking Kindred, take it 
for granted. They have had so much of it for so long that 
they no longer even consider consciously where it comes 
from, or even bother spending it. Chances are, if they 
need to buy something or someone, they have the funds. 
Such should be the goal of every new Ventrue: to acquire 
so much wealth that wealth ceases to matter.
That goal is easier stated than accomplished, of course. 
Investments take time to mature, companies rarely make 
stockholders millionaires overnight, even in the nights of 
unpredictable Internet stocks. All the traditional, mortal 
means of becoming rich work just as well for the Ventrue, 
too; better, even, since Kindred have much more time 
to weather market cycles. However, investing doesn’t 
do you any good if you don’t have any money to invest. 
Fortunately, Ventrue have other assets at their disposal 
and a few tried-and-true methods exist to bankroll an 
ambitious Kindred’s future career.
At the most base level imaginable, a Ventrue can 
always just steal money. Considered crass, low-class 
and shameful, theft is nevertheless easy and sometimes 
necessary. Walk into a department store, a grocery store, 
a liquor store or even a bar. Look into the man behind 
the counter’s eyes and ask him for all his money; it’s his 
ass on the line unless Kindred start making a habit of it. 
Watch out for security cameras and don’t try the same 
trick twice, but it will do in a pinch. The down side is that, 
aside from the shame factor, it’s nearly impossible to get 
one’s hands on real, Ventrue-sized amounts of cash this 
way. Ventrue want and deal in millions, not 10s and 20s.
Fortunately, rich people can be and are fooled into 
giving their money away all the time. The Ventrue can 
take money for all kinds of reasons that the rich won’t even 
begin to suspect. Ventrue in the modern age prefer especially 
charities and political contributions. In both cases, a clever 
pitch or magnetic personality can open up checkbooks, 
especially when combined with the vintage wines and 
gourmet foods of a fundraiser. The more traditional but 
equally useful venue for fund raising is the Church, where 
the faithful gladly (and tax-deductably) tithe large chunks of 
income. The advantage for all of these methods is that the 
people who give do not expect any material return. They 
think they’re buying political influence or salvation or good 
press or just giving money to feel good about themselves. 
Few ever check to see what becomes of the money.
It is not surprising, then, that most Ventrue sit on 
at least one charity or other fund-raising board. But the 
best and most lucrative cash cow is and always will be 
straightforward business. Once a Ventrue puts together 
a strong business plan and some start-up capital, he can 
achieve almost anything. Need new investors for a start-up 
company? In tough negotiations with a potential partner? 
Having labor problems? A cool Ventrue can solve any of 
these and a hundred other common business problems 
with a sit-down conversation. Tact and demeanor haven’t 
harmed the Ventrue in their millennia at the front of the 
Kindred pecking order.
A fledgling with an influential or connected sire may 
even entreat his mentor to “borrow” from the Ventrue 
coffers or the sire’s own accounts. While many other Blue 
Bloods would look down upon this bit of silver-spoon 
“cheating,” those same Ventrue would no doubt have 
availed themselves of similar opportunities had such been 
open to them. Some sires, though, would also refuse such 
requests, wanting their issue to prove themselves. Oth-
ers would gladly provide the “tools” for their progeny’s 
success, looking forward to basking in the glow of their 
dignitas and their own peers’ envy.
All this takes time of course, but not too much. Within 
two years of being Embraced, the vast majority of Ventrue 
are wealthy (if they weren’t already). Within a decade, 
all but the dimmest (or least concerned) command as-
sets worth millions of dollars. It’s expected. If you don’t 
have so much money you never have to worry about it 
again by your 20th Embrace anniversary, something is 
very, very wrong.
The Servants
Unlike many other clans, the Ventrue sometimes 
employ vast numbers of mortals directly. Within a hazy 
chain of command, the clan has easily 10 times as many 
kine as Kindred, a figure that does not include the thou-
sands more over whom various Ventrue have some degree 
of influence. There are two reasons for this practice. First, 
Ventrue do not fear humans as much as most Kindred… 
or, perhaps, as much as they should. Although no vam-
pire would admit it, most feel uncomfortable around 
kine. They worry that they’ll make some mistake and 
give themselves away, bringing down the angry, torch-
bearing mob. The Ventrue have less fear because they 
work among the kine, alongside them, and they often 
have a hauteur over the Children of Seth that borders on 
the dangerous or perverse. As they say, familiarity breeds 
contempt; many arrogant Ventrue certainly have more 
than their share of disregard for mortals.


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
65
Almost every Ventrue has a need for any number of 
mortal retainers from a basic stable at some point in her 
unlife. She may have need for the lawyers, accountants 
and managers necessary to manage her finances. For 
the most part, these employees can be normal mortals 
who have no idea that they’re working for a Kindred, 
or even an unusual businesswoman. The wealthiest 
Ventrue employ dozens of these pencil-pushers, each 
managing a discreet fraction of their interests without 
even knowing that the others exist. Hiring and firing 
them is no different than any other business move in 
the mortal world.
More dangerous are those with whom the Ventrue 
works more closely. The men and women who carry out 
her direct desires, manage her holding companies and 
deliver her ultimatums. Although they usually have little 
or no knowledge of the Kindred’s true nature, they do 
know that they work for a very rich, powerful and secretive 
employer. These employees are almost universally very 
talented, subtle and well paid. The wise Ventrue virtu-
ally always has some hold over these individuals, either 
through the gifts of Caine or some more temporal method 
like blackmail — or even something wholly fabricated. 
This bit of leverage should not be used as an impetus for 
them to do their work well (they should want to do that 
on their own) but rather as an emergency reserve in case 
someone steps out of line.
Finally come the close, trusted servants who know 
the Ventrue’s true nature. Revealing one’s vampiric 
identity to a mortal not only violates the letter of the 
Masquerade, it places the Kindred in some danger as 
well. The Ventrue must be very secure with any servants 
and equally prepared for the “calculated risk loss” should 
doubts rise about their trustworthiness. It is much easier 
to find a new servant than it is to undo an act of betrayal. 
These servants sometimes even work for the Kindred 
with the hopes — stated or hidden — that their master 
will Embrace them one night. It even works out that way 
sometimes, although not as often as each would hope.
As mentioned previously, the most important thing 
that most Ventrue realize about mortal (and even ghoul) 
servants is that they are all replaceable. Indeed, should 
a Ventrue ever come to think of one of her servants as 
invaluable rather than just useful — as the Blue Bloods 
comment among themselves — it is time to remove 
that servant. The Ventrue herself is and always should 
be the one who matters most. A Kindred who so loses 
control of her domain that she cannot hold it without 
a mortal’s help is better off dead. And that maxim has 
been put to the test many times over the course of history.


Clanbook: Ventrue
66
The Acquisition of Dignitas
Haven established, sustenance secured and financing 
acquired, the Ventrue can now set about acquiring what the 
rest of his nights will no doubt focus upon: dignitas. That 
single word, borrowed from the Romans, sums up every 
reason that the Ventrue exist. It means accruing power 
and influence, winning victories against one’s enemies 
and rising within the hierarchy of peers to attain fame 
and distinction within the Camarilla, all with the dignity 
and noble air with which all Ventrue comport themselves.
The Tools
How then does one acquire dignitas? Every moment 
offers new opportunities. A following section details the 
various arenas in which the clan recognizes and encourages 
excellence. First, though, come the basic techniques that 
Ventrue can use to succeed in their quest for recognition 
and status, the four Ventrue keystones found in every clan 
member’s toolbox: money, information, respect and power. 
Money
Mortals have risen to power and prominence for 
eons without the aid of supernatural powers or immortal 
life spans. Ventrue can and do use the same methods, 
the most potent of which is money. The uses for money 
are many and obvious: It buys weapons, security, soldiers 
and information. It can sometimes buy politicians, juries, 
law-enforcement, results and even affection. The ability to 
manipulate it can be a weapon, whether that means freez-
ing a foe’s finances or taking over his company in a hostile 
stock buy-out. Money is the most versatile tool for power 
in existence, and it is no wonder that the Ventrue spend 
so much time making sure that they never run out of it.
They key to using money is that everyone (or nearly 
everyone) has a price. The trick is to find out what that price 
is, even if they themselves don’t know it. Once you meet 
that price, they’ll play if you pay. It is important to note that 
sometimes that price is a negative. For the very wealthy, 
the price could well be keeping what they have in the face 
of possibly losing it all. Moreover, one should always look 
around for when the price is too high. The person standing 
next to the subject (a wife, a partner, an adviser) might be 
more affordable — and perhaps a better investment.
As many a moralist can testify, money and greed 
can lead to more trouble than good. A clever Ventrue 
knows how to make money create trouble all on its own. 
Sometimes, especially when it comes to blackmailing or 
“manufacturing blame,” unexplained money can be worse 
than no money at all. Anonymous, unknown deposits 
can lead to troubles with the IRS, make it look like a 
government official is taking bribes or even arouse spousal 
suspicions. The money itself can be tainted, the profits 
from a crime in which the serial numbers are known. 
Merely possessing or spending the money can result in 
grave consequences for the Ventrue’s enemy.
Information
The Ventrue have known the value of information 
just as long as the Nosferatu have, they just don’t see 
the point in lurking in shadows and sewers to obtain 
it. In many ways, the Ventrue pursue information with 
more fervor than they do money, since it is both harder 
to come by and more valuable. In fact, one of the best 
things about money is that you can use it to buy infor-
mation. Knowledge is the key to power. The more one 
knows about enemies, rivals, possible partners, allies and 
even their own domain, the more effective their leader-
ship becomes. From stock tips to the security codes for 
a troublesome rival’s haven, the right piece of data at 
the right moment can change the very whims of Fate.
Since Ventrue cannot often lurk unseen in plain sight 
like some Kindred, they must rely on more traditional 
means. Successful Ventrue recognize a few things every 
Blue Blood should invest in from the beginning, one of 
which is a talented pool of gossips and informants. Private 
detectives are readily available, and most Ventrue can find 
one willing to bend or break the rules for the right price 
(here, again, the importance of money). Wise employers 
test them first on a mundane matter like industrial espionage 
or following and reporting on the affairs of a fellow mortal. 
Gradually, they draw the mortal into their world, paying 
far better than any other client. Eventually, they groom a 
devoted “regular,” or at least a dependable resource.
Having invested in an investigator, the Ventrue should 
retain the latest and greatest surveillance equipment her 
resources will allow. Technology has caught up with and 
even surpassed the Nosferatu when it comes to listening in 
secretly on others’ conversations. Even a marginally wealthy 
Ventrue who makes a few law enforcement contacts can 
tap key phones, bug vital offices and havens, hire computer 
hackers or even track an individual’s movements easily. 
Many Ventrue, as is their way, resisted these machines 
for a long time, but competition brought about by young, 
ambitious Ventrue have made the use of these devices 
common among even the most staid members of the clan.
After acquiring the basic tools of information-
gathering, a prudent Ventrue also spends much of his 
existence widening his circle of contacts, informants 
and amicable associates. Here again, Ventrue polite-
ness serves its clan members well. Not only do the 
clan’s supernatural abilities make it easier for them 
to win over confidences if all else fails, their manners 
make them actually pay attention to what others have 
to say. A Ventrue always listens, at least if he wants to 
get ahead in unlife. Genteel, even gregarious and free 
with their money when they need to be, the Ventrue 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
67
know how to make contacts and keep them, especially 
if said contacts have valuable information.
Finally, when other methods fail, the Ventrue always 
has himself to rely on. If turning on the charm doesn’t work 
and the information is too vital to let go, get it straight from 
the person’s mind. The vulgar uses of one’s supernatural 
resources allow the Ventrue to force a mortal to tell him 
the truth, with no deception possible. Doing so necessitates 
careful handling in order to protect the Masquerade, and it 
has its complications. But when one has to know for sure, 
this recourse is almost entirely reliable.
Respect
Charm and cash aside, every Ventrue needs one other 
tool in his arsenal in order to succeed: respect. Respect 
is a two-edged sword, and the most successful Ventrue 
shave with one edge and cut down their enemies with the 
other. Turned against himself, respect keeps the Ventrue 
alert, ambitious and graceful. The Ventrue respects not 
only the breach of Masquerade and the fangs of his peers 
through fear, he respects the words of his elders and the 
competition from those below him. He observes the 
customs of dignitas, or else he respects the consequences 
his fellows would bring to bear on him should he play 
the maverick. He rides this understanding, lets it press 
him forward without succumbing to it.
The Ventrue find external respect — that is, other 
people’s respect of them — much more interesting and 
comfortable to deal with. After all, humility is rarely a 
Ventrue’s strong suit. Along with an honorable bearing 
and a mannered demeanor, ambitious Ventrue should 
cultivate a stalwart reputation. All smile and no bite can 
cause others to disregard a Kindred, something no Ventrue 
worth his dignitas can abide.  Fear can breed respect, as 
can justness, frugality and even a self-fulfilling aura of 
success. Respect also keeps others on their best behavior. 
Finally, having the world (or a part of it anyway) respect 
him just makes a Ventrue feel good and gives him the 
confidence to do what he needs to do.
How, then, does one develop such a worthy mien? First 
and foremost, the Ventrue must never be afraid to take 
measures to their required ends, especially when dealing 
with mortals and non-Camarilla Kindred. One does not 
purchase the essentials for unlife on promises or borrowed 
money. Of course, a Ventrue should not go around kill-
ing or sacking his elders’ coffers just to prove that he can. 
Indeed, doing so not only makes one look brutal or foolish, 
it is a waste of time and energy. No, a Ventrue should take 
an extreme measure only when the situation demands it, 
and then he should not hesitate for a moment.
Death is not the only extreme measure, of course. 
Indeed, it might not even be the most severe. For example, 
a recalcitrant mortal servant might step into line if his 
family is threatened. A young anarch punk who refuses 
to acknowledge the pecking order can be brought to heel 
socially. With the ability to control minds, Ventrue seldom 
need to resort to torture, but some do anyway, just for the 
fear factor or for the ease of “clean-up” afterward. Other, 
less physical, actions can instill fear as well. Blackmail and 
extortion are favorite tools. Threaten to reveal a man’s 
secrets or erase his bank accounts, and he will most likely 
cave in moments. The following is only one example of 
the most important Ventrue truism regarding respect: 
Everyone fears something, and it is your job to find out 
what that something is.
Power and Powers
Here again we have that troublesome word: power. 
The word is so overused that it has nearly lost all meaning 
of its own in the world of the undead. In the terms of this 
discussion, power refers to the ability to actually get things 
done. A Ventrue can have all the money, information and 
esteemed reputation in the world, but if he can’t do any-
thing with it, then what’s it all for? The ability to enforce 
one’s desires on the rest of the world is truly a measure of 
power. The more of the world a Kindred can enforce his 
desires upon, the more power he has. This topic deserves 
a more thorough treatment than any in this section. The 
following are details on how and why Ventrue accumulate 
real power in a variety of different arenas.
Business
Status in the business world comes not from making 
money, but from the ancillary influences that attend par-
ticular industries. No one cares about how much money a 
Kindred’s three radio stations make him. They do care if 
he can use them to push a particular political agenda or 
quash a story about some breach in the Masquerade. Who 
cares if VentrueSoft had a record-breaking IPO? Can the 
Blue Blood use the company’s technology to help hack 
into the Nosferatu computer network? Arms sales in a 
slump? It doesn’t matter as long as both sides of a given 
conflict purchase the same ammunition. Therefore, many 
business ventures that don’t necessarily turn a profit still 
carry high prestige for the Ventrue who can influence 
them. In other words, if a Kindred can use it for clan or 
personal advantage, it brings prestige.
This priority on results and influence rather than 
profits means that Ventrue do not necessarily have to have 
legal or fiscal control of a company in order to earn dignitas 
from having it in their domain. It is nigh impossible for 
a young Ventrue to exert any substantive influence over 
a large corporation. However, she doesn’t need to if she 
knows several low- to mid-level employees who will give 
her access to the company’s internal information and help 


Clanbook: Ventrue
68
acquire inventory or services. Why own the limousine 
company when a single call to one of the drivers brings 
the resources to your door?
Starting at the bottom is also a good way for ambi-
tious Ventrue to accrue dignitas in the face of an elder 
population that claims dominion over all the city’s most 
prominent industries. The old-guard Ventrue might have 
the board of directors and the CEO in his pocket, but he 
probably has no idea what’s going on at the loading docks. 
If she’s careful, a new Ventrue can come in and make a 
play for influence at the ground floor. She accumulates 
real power over inventory and the use of freight trucks, 
both of which have many practical uses.
Even in the extreme cases, when and if the elder finds 
out, the case goes to Ventrue court and an arbiter makes 
the final decision. As often as not, the young Ventrue can 
make a case for herself that the elder was not exploiting his 
dominion effectively, and she gets to keep what she earned. 
On the down side, she has an elder angry with her, and 
she loses great dignitas if the case goes against her. No one 
ever said that Ventrue politics was for the faint of heart. 
Local Government
The Ventrue try to sink their talons into every aspect 
of a city’s government, hoping to populate it with spies, 
informants and agents. Actually, it sounds more insidious 
than it really is. Most of these “catspaws” do not even 
realize to whom they’re reporting or where the money’s 
coming from. Nevertheless, one can often assume that 
a Ventrue-connected mortal works somewhere in any 
branch of local government, from law enforcement to the 
property appraiser’s office. Obviously, not every government 
employee is the secret minion of the vast conspiracy of an 
undead shadow government, but neither do they need to 
be. One does not always need direct access to the zoning 
board when a more anonymous assistant will do. Here 
again, as with business, it’s not whom you influence but 
what you can accomplish. The Ventrue care about results.
At the top of the heap sits the city’s mayor and or city 
council (depending on local laws). As elected officials, the 
Ventrue try to steer clear of using too much direct power 
against such public targets. Moreover, these high-ranking 
officials have so many interests pulling at them already 
that it can prove difficult for a single Kindred to establish 
reliable influence. Besides, most of a mayor’s job consists of 
dealing with issues the Ventrue could not care less about. A 
conditioned servant needs constant direction, something 
no one has the time to give. Still, at least one Ventrue in 
the city — usually the prince or praetor — often keeps an 
“open line” to the mayor. They have established contacts 
that can yield them direct contact with the city’s leaders 
on short notice. Most already have established relation-
ships, but those who don’t may fall back on their mental 
and emotional powers in an emergency.
The problem with working through the mayor or 
city council or whatever other authority exists out there 
is that it takes a great deal of energy, and it actually usu-
ally proves quite inefficient. The leaders themselves do 
very little. They order others to do those things, people 
who order underlings to carry out the leaders’ demands, 
in turn. It’s far more efficient, and less obvious, to go to 
the person who ends up performing the task in the first 
place. Not only are lower-level government officials more 
accessible, they’re almost always easier to influence. Why 
have a mayor put pressure on the D.A. to drop a legal case 
when having the property clerk lose the evidence sees the 
case thrown out of court? Why put pressure on the police 
chief to assign extra patrols of a certain neighborhood 
on a given night when you can pay off-duty cops to do 
it for you? The examples are endless.
Moreover, it is important to have the individual parts 
of the political machine under one’s sway because, as often 
as not, the city leadership has very little authority to make 
anyone actually do anything. Elected officials come and 
go, but the entrenched bureaucracy remains the same. 
Someone is certainly going to want to have members of 
offices like the tax collector, the property appraiser, the 
code-enforcement division and the department of motor 
vehicles in his favor. All of these positions provide valuable 
services, from fake identity documents to the necessary 
permits to build new havens (or evict troublesome rivals 
from their current abodes). Even public services like the 
fire department deserve the resourceful Kindred’s atten-
tion. After all, a few wrong turns or missteps by a friendly 
firefighter can result in an enemy’s haven burning to the 
ground while the Ventrue’s receives prompt attention.
In order to establish these vital influences, the Ven-
true must do a little research and find out who actually 
has the power to do things. Who signs the work orders, 
and who carries them out? Who has the passwords to the 
computer system? Find out all the basics first before making 
a move. Often the easiest way to uncover this informa-
tion is to find and question (or interrogate) someone who 
has worked there for a long time. Then, Ventrue should 
develop personal relationships with those mortals in the 
governmental area over which they intend to establish 
domain who have the true power. Charm, cajole, bribe, 
seduce — or Dominate — as necessary.
On a final note, no single Ventrue’s influence extends 
into every part of government. Rather, each Kindred es-
tablishes contacts in a particular area. A key element of 
Ventrue internal politics involves the exchange of favors. 
If one Kindred has tremendous influence within the police, 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
69
others will come to her seeking help with police matters. 
Clan tradition obligates her to do what she can without 
jeopardizing her own position. She can of course expect 
similar favors in return. As a rule of thumb, when a higher-
ranking Ventrue asks such a favor, it is given freely and 
without expectation of recompense. Rank has its privileges. 
National Politics
A nation’s government is an entirely different affair 
that most Ventrue have no part in. Unless the Ventrue 
makes his haven within the country’s capitol, it tends 
to be difficult to affect national policy directly. Even 
those who dwell around the corner from the president 
or prime minister’s residence don’t have an easy time of 
it, however. National leaders have so much attention, 
are so public and have so much security that tampering 
with them is certainly improbable (if not impossible) for 
all but the most subtle and potent elder. Furthermore, 
so many influences already pull at a national leader that 
unless the Kindred devotes his entire being to shadowing 
the president and whispering commands in his ear, influ-
encing him effectively on a regular basis is not feasible.
The same can be said of national legislative body and 
other elected officials, although to a lesser extent. The 
Ventrue often have an influencing effect on those elected 
locally. This influence is by no means complete, and it usu-
ally amounts to something comparable to what a powerful, 
mortal lobbyist might have. However, the Ventrue should 
be able to arrange a face-to-face meeting with the legislator 
if the need arises. Afterward, he should have no problem 
assuring that her next vote is an informed one. Of course, 
blatant manipulations and coarse uses of Disciplines are 
dangerous, and they attract much unwanted attention, 
both from the mesmerized target and her aides and peers.
The best way to influence mortal politics is by using 
the same tools mortals do: money and lobbyists. One 
has no reason to waste valuable energy when money can 
achieve most of the things a vampire would ever need from 
a politician. After all, the national government seldom has 
much to do with the issues that concern Kindred. Most 
Kindred do not fight open wars or command tank divisions 
and bombers, nor does any but the rarest of Methuselahs 
carry our vendettas or grudges with national policy. They 
do occasionally want federal funding for local highways as 
a favor to one of their mortal contacts or legal shelter for 
some business-related undertaking. These needs are not 
supernatural, and they do not require supernatural solutions.
Having a paid lobbyist on one’s staff, for local, re-
gional or national politics, is something many prominent 
Ventrue do. Usually the Kindred’s attorneys handle such 
dealings. Different Ventrue approach this problem from 


Clanbook: Ventrue
70
different perspectives. Most, concerned primarily with 
local politics, never want any contact or connection with 
the lobbyist. As long as the job is done, they’d prefer 
to have their name far removed from the proceedings. 
Others, particularly those with a vested interest in 
national politics, like to work much closer. They often 
find lobbyists that they can groom and cajole to the point 
at which they can work with full knowledge of the Kin-
dred’s true nature. This way, they can stay on top of the 
situation and use their own powers to intervene as neces-
sary. Acquiring such a servant is really no different than 
finding loyal help at home: Conditioning, blood bond, 
blackmail and bribery all serve as possible motivators.
Crime
Almost any Ventrue could use some criminal contacts 
of one sort or another at some point during his unlife. 
Mortal laws do not bind Kindred, and few Ventrue feel 
obligated to limit their activities to the above-board and 
legal. With only what remains of his humanitas to bind 
him, a Ventrue may even be prepared to break the law 
nightly, whether that means ordering wiretaps on someone’s 
phone or kidnapping someone off the street to interrogate 
him. It all has to happen on demand and in a professional 
manner. Equally importantly, it cannot connect back to 
the Ventrue himself under any circumstances.
One should always isolate oneself from actual criminal 
acts to the fullest extent possible. The justice system is 
one of those fearsome mortal institutions that can cause 
great harm to Ventrue, both operationally and personally. 
Even with adequate precautions, most Ventrue isolate 
themselves from street-level criminal activities, making re-
quests through trusted ghouls and other intermediaries and 
extending anonymous favors in return for consideration.
Acquiring criminal associates is easy, although finding 
skilled ones invariably proves more difficult. Typically, a 
Ventrue divides his criminal resources into two catego-
ries: disposable thugs and experienced operatives. The 
disposable thugs are street toughs and gangbangers who 
do violence gladly in return for money. Some Ventrue 
never have need of such services, but they come in handy 
for terrorizing mortals, making examples of anarch havens 
and other brute-force, low-intellect operations. As their 
name suggests, one uses disposable thugs a few times (or 
maybe only once) before writing them off permanently.
Professional criminals are harder to come by. They are 
usually career mobsters or law-enforcement types who have 
gone over to the profitable side and are a rare breed. They 
may work in a Ventrue’s employ for many years, making good 
money but not quite enough to retire. They run criminal 
operations and perform investigative duties. Ventrue who 
do not wish to trust such sensitive matters to just anyone 
actually train their own operatives, taking a mortal under 
their wing from a young age and grooming them for the 
job. Sometimes — if the mortal lives long enough — he 
may become a ghoul or even receive the Embrace as a 
backhanded “reward” for keeping the Ventrue’s good faith.
Influence within existing organized crime syndicates 
is an entirely different matter. Certainly, many Ventrue 
become involved with such groups, but they run into a 
great deal of competition from other clans in this arena. 
Furthermore, most organized groups have already earned 
law enforcement’s detrimental attention. While profit and 
prestige is attached to having mob influence, one should 
deal with sensitive and important criminal matters oneself. 
Better to have no traceable, prosecutable connection with 
organized crime.
All together, the amount of criminal muscle and 
expertise available to a Ventrue reflects strongly on his 
dignitas. More than any other arena, the world of crime 
is chiefly about working around restrictions, be they legal 
or moral. The ability to accomplish ends, no matter the 
means, carries great weight within the clan. Of course, 
it must be done with style, tradition and a certain degree 
of decorum. Bloodbaths in the streets and Mafia thugs 
breaking the knees of everyone in a neighborhood do not 
impress the clan elders. Silencing a truculent reporter 
without undue attention or arranging the theft of a 
property deed from a Toreador haven just might.
Society
Once one looks beyond the powerful business, govern-
ment and criminal institutions, a whole world of mortals 
practically begs some enterprising Ventrue to come along 
and grace them with his presence. Ventrue especially prize 
the ability to sway and set in motion large kine groups. 
Is a loathsome Toreador planning a tour de force gallery 
opening for his new protégé? Rouse the religious right for 
a no-holds-barred protest and boycott. Sabbat setting up 
one of their infernal churches in the city? Encourage the 
neighborhood watch to organize a petition and march to 
oust the unpleasant new residents and demand the old 
church demolished by the city. As any Ventrue can tell 
you, the people have power, and sometimes they need to 
be motivated to use it.
In the nights of history, the Church proved the best 
means of reaching the population at large. Tonight the 
same is still true, although not as universally so as it once 
was. The new gods of popular music, mass-market fiction, 
television and movies have taken over. The Toreador 
have made great inroads into many aspects of all these 
potent media, but the Ventrue continue to make forays 
into the field, from the business side at the very least. As 
entertainment and media grow more commonly owned by, 
operated by and answerable to big business, the Ventrue 
position has strengthened accordingly.


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
71
On the local level, Ventrue can do much with the 
leaders of individual churches, political organizations 
and community social clubs. The clan has long involved 
itself with exclusive societies like the Freemasons and 
even groups like Elk Lodges and the Shriners. Country 
clubs and gentlemen’s clubs have long served as Ventrue 
havens and meeting places, as well as a source of contact 
networks and connected mortals who represent almost 
infinite opportunities. The Ventrue can make inroads and 
valuable contacts anywhere people gather to share ideas 
and establish their group identity.
Using power from such groups is tricky. Social forces 
are only truly effective when large numbers of people 
become involved, making the Kindred’s visibility an 
issue. Fortunately for the Ventrue, people tend to stop 
thinking for themselves when they gather in large groups. 
A talented speaker with a strong personality can work 
the right crowd into a fervor and push them into action. 
Elder Ventrue who survived the Inquisition have seen 
this phenomenon firsthand. Now, they help teach their 
childer to harness that power against their enemies — 
with extreme caution.
The Best 
and Brightest
The Ventrue see themselves as the strongest, most 
important Kindred clan of them all; the preeminent Cainite 
bloodline. They arguably have the most influence within 
the mortal world, and they hold the most prominent posi-
tions within the Camarilla. Their natural abilities make 
them the perfect leaders while their traditions, breeding 
and mores separate them from the rest of the undead 
rabble that roams the night. No doubt, these claims seem 
lofty and arrogant, and certainly few others would agree so 
exultantly, but the fact of the matter is that the Ventrue do 
have a point. It might not be destiny, noble heritage or “the 
hand of Caine” working in their favor, but Clan Ventrue 
very likely wields the most temporal power in the world.
What support exists for this inflammatory claim? 
First of all, although sheer numbers may work against 
them, the clan has more influence than almost any 
other clan. Since the Ventrue have more members in 
prominent positions, including princes, they can all but 
govern the creation of Kindred. Most Ventrue are much 
better than other proliferate clans like the Brujah or the 
turgid antitribu at spending their early years thinking for 
the future. The Ventrue lead calmer unlives and expand 
their assets rather than indulging in frivolity or violence.
Additionally, the clan’s close ties to mortal institu-
tions give them tremendous power to get things done, 
achieve their goals and protect their interests and 
themselves. With perhaps more mortal contact than 
any other clan, they can place a wall of flesh between 
them and anyone who would do them harm. The clan’s 
tremendous wealth and contacts add to their potency 
immeasurably. They can buy whatever and whomever 
they need, whenever they need it. Even other wealthy 
clans like the Giovanni and Toreador don’t come close to 
wielding the vast, institutional reserves of the Ventrue. 
Also and again, Ventrue hold more leadership 
positions within the Camarilla than any other clan. 
Having Ventrue princes generates tremendous clan 
prestige and opportunities within those cities. Ventrue 
primogen, seneschals, sheriffs and harpies add even more 
to the clan’s overall strength. Although they might 
bicker among themselves over minor matters, this vast 
network of powerful Ventrue can come together and 
move mountains when the time comes. It is hard to oust 
Ventrue from power because they already hold so many 
of these positions. Meanwhile, more up-and-coming 
Blue Bloods actively pursue those seats not occupied 
currently by Ventrue. Each decade brings about more 
Ventrue leaders, not less.
The Ventrue hierarchy and traditions make for one 
of the most unified clans in Kindred society, behind only 
the occult Tremere and unwholesome filial nature of the 
Giovanni. As for the individual Ventrue’s motivations, 
most realize that unity (even enforced by abstractions 
such as dignitas) provides the key to maintaining and 
expanding their own prominence or comfort. The mere 
fact that Ventrue can expect succor (or at least a non-
hostile approximation) in a crisis puts them head and 
shoulders above most clans, particularly those without 
the grace or demeanor of kings.
As the modern nights prove, times change. The 
physically powerful clans, like the Brujah, still have 
important roles to play in the Camarilla. The truth of 
the matter, however, is that modern weaponry has closed 
the gap between those who posses powerful physical 
attributes and those who do not. The Ventrue do not 
necessarily want the martial prowess of the other clans 
on their side, but rather they have started to even the 
field physically.
Together, all of these facts lend credence to the 
Ventrue claim to the title “scions of the Kindred.” 
That’s all well and good, as far as it goes. Strongest or 
no, the Ventrue still need the other five clans to keep 
the Camarilla functional and viable. They realize as 
much, and they are even the first to admit it. One fact 
remains, however. The Camarilla survived the loss of 
the Gangrel. It could probably even survive the loss of 
another clan. It could not survive the loss of the Ventrue.


Clanbook: Ventrue
72
The Camarilla
A Ventrue created the Camarilla, with cursory help 
from its fellow members. The clan has taken the lead in 
promoting the sect and upholding its traditions. Much of 
the clan’s dignitas is tied to this 500-year-old dream, and 
the Ventrue elders do not plan to let anything happen to 
it. As far as the Directorate is concerned, the Ventrue and 
the Camarilla are linked tightly for the foreseeable future.
The Ventrue see themselves as the sect’s stewards. 
They must lead the other clans; help them meet the Ca-
marilla’s standards and traditions. The concept of noblesse 
oblige evidences itself here more than anywhere else. The 
Camarilla exists for the benefit of the race of Kindred, to 
help protect them from both each other and the ire of 
humanity. Ventrue take pride in their duty to Kindred 
society, and they are generally very serious about the sect 
and its goals. Some Ventrue believe firmly that they, as 
a clan, would be just fine without the Camarilla. They 
have the power and the ability to protect themselves. 
The other clans are not so blessed. They cannot cope 
with the kine as the Ventrue do, and they would bring 
down upon Kindred a new, even more deadly, Inquisition.
The Gangrel
The loss of Clan Gangrel hit the Ventrue hard 
— much harder than they have let on to the rest of 
the world. It is obviously a grave blow to the sect and 
the clan that leads it. Opinions vary about what to do 
about the exodus. Some say that the Camarilla should 
disavow the whole bloodline, curse the Gangrel as they 
do the Giovanni or any other rogue bloodline. Others 
want reconciliation. They want to draw at least some of 
the Gangrel back to the sect and recognize a Camarilla 
Gangrel body that might not include every (or even most 
of) the animalistic Kindred, but that at least gives them 
reputation and restores their name to the sect’s roster.
Pretenders to the Throne
The Ventrue recognize among themselves two rivals 
for leadership within the Camarilla: the Toreador and 
the Tremere. The clan works hard night after night to 
make sure that neither of these two powerful rivals can 
usurp its position and authority. First and foremost, it 
tries as best it can to have close relations with both 
clans, under the old adage “keep your friends close 
and your enemies closer.” This tactic might not apply 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
73
to the Lasombra, but it certainly applies to the artists 
and the magicians. 
The Toreador present the larger threat, chiefly be-
cause their areas of influence and contacts with the mortal 
world come closest to threatening the Ventrue’s own. 
Furthermore, the clan ostensibly has a better relationship 
with most of the other clans than the Tremere, putting 
them in a stronger position to rally support (although 
many Kindred view this situation as one of relative lesser 
evils). Fortunately, the same is true for the Ventrue as 
well, who also have a solid working relationship with the 
Toreador. The two clans see eye-to-eye on many issues of 
Camarilla policy, and they work together well enough. 
For now, the two clans observe an uneasy state of non-
agression, and the Ventrue have no systematic agenda 
for weakening the Toreador. Instead, they play these de 
facto allies against their mutual rival, the Tremere.
The Ventrue have never had much personal regard 
for the Tremere, but they do respect the power the clan 
wields. The Warlocks have so many unknown abilities 
that many Ventrue — very practical-minded Kindred 
— become nervous when they have to deal with them. 
The Tremere make plays for more influence within the 
Camarilla periodically, but the Ventrue usually beat them 
back with the most reliable weapon they have: respect. 
The other clans all fear the unknown, and the Tremere 
represent a big unknown. They have a reputation as the 
least trustworthy clan, a fact the Ventrue make sure that 
everyone else remembers. The Ventrue think they can 
hold the blood-witches at bay until the Tremere overcome 
the stigma of their secretive and bizarre reputation.
Clan Relations
The following Ventrue stereotypes are just that: 
stereotypes. No Ventrue feels this way about every single 
Kindred in a given clan. Likewise, not every Ventrue 
shares the general clan impression. Still, they do shed 
some light on general Ventrue attitudes toward their 
fellow Kindred and the rest of the world. 
Brujah
They are a conundrum: infuriatingly brash when 
young, infuriatingly clever when old. It’s hard to say which 
is worse. Their strength and commitment are valuable, but 
their ages-old resentments and furious nature make them 
unpredictable allies at best. Treat them with respect, but hold 
them at arms’ length, as you would any dangerous animal.


Clanbook: Ventrue
74
Malkavians
Insane without a doubt, our mentally unstable cous-
ins still provide valuable support to the Camarilla. We 
have worked with them well in the past, but not when 
precision is necessary. One must always keep a sense of 
irony about them as well as one’s patience. Ultimately, 
though, they are second-tier at best, not a real threat 
or a true asset. Ignoring them completely is often (but 
not always) the best course.
Nosferatu
They know what we do, that information is king. 
Their ability to gather it is amazing, although their 
obsession with it is somewhat pitiable. Still, they work 
well for the sect, and they do not necessarily seek our 
demise. They make fine allies when you can find them, 
but they’re seldom there when you need them (at least 
not there to be seen). Every prince should have one in 
his pocket, but one should never be beholden to them.
Toreador
Our closest allies and rivals. Fortunately for us, 
they have their heads in the clouds rather than on the 
business at hand. Their wasteful obsession with beauty 
distracts them from more important matters. They 
are not fools, though, and they can bear down on the 
problem with appropriate ferocity when a crisis comes. 
The key to handling them is directing them toward the 
right goals, which is to say, our goals.
Tremere
Dangerous, secretive and without dignity. The Tre-
mere’s magic sets them apart from the rest of us, but their 
total devotion to “mystic arts” makes them pariahs and 
outcasts within the Camarilla. Just as well. If there were 
any clan in the sect we could do without, it is them, but it 
is far better to have them on our side than allied with the 
Sabbat or working on their own. Not as powerful as they 
think they are, they still merit a close watching at all times.
The Sabbat
Fools, monsters and traitors to our kind. We have no 
pity for the Sabbat. The world has no place for them, and 
they must ultimately be destroyed to the last vampire. Their 
injudicious, brutal and grotesque ways are a mockery of 
Caine’s legacy and a threat to us all. Were it not for the bitter 
jealousy of the Lasombra, they would have long ago torn 
themselves to pieces. We shall do it for them eventually.
Lasombra
They have been second to us since the First City, 
dogging our heels and hoping to pick up our scraps. The 
play at power, but they understand nothing of its true 
workings. They hide in shadows and watch humanity 
from afar, unwilling and afraid to take the bull by the 
horns. Their influence shrinks with each passing night 
as their own elders fall to uneducated brutes who know 
nothing of even the small honor and ability the clan 
once held. They are a disgrace to behold and worthy of 
nothing but scorn, derision and most importantly, fire. 
Tzimisce
Incomprehensible monsters one and all, but dan-
gerous nonetheless. That is, dangerous when one meets 
them alone in a dark alley surrounded by their abomi-
nable comrades. Otherwise, they are harmless for the 
most part. They lose any sense of vision, of purpose, in 
their uncouth and juvenile fascination with the flesh.
The Independents
One good thing we can say about the Independents 
is that at least they have the good sense not to join the 
Sabbat. Would we welcome any of them into the Cama-
rilla’s ranks? With a cautious smile. They are degenerate, 
base and ill-founded clans, but they deserve a seat at our 
table. Still, we extend them certain considerations and 
protections as long as they abide by our rules. While in 
our cities, they can carry out their pointless existences 
if they refrain from bothering the rest of us who have 
more important matters at hand.
Assamites
A curious breed, the Assamites. Gifted with a fervent 
bent and potent abilities, they waste their unlives with 
bloody diablerie. We defanged them long ago with Tremere 
help, but now they seem determined to repay the debt; they 
slipped that noose and broke our agreement. As such, we can 
no longer abide them. Until we find a way to chain them 
once again, trust them only in the direst of circumstances.
Followers of Set
Snake charmers, prone to spreading debasement and 
dependency. We have no patience for them and their 
bizarre ways. They taint what they touch, or so they 
would have us believe. In truth, they seem little more 
than egomaniacs trying to relive the serpent’s halcyon 
nights from the Book of Genesis. Were they to find a 
less deluded purpose, they might pose a more present 
threat. If their presence offends thee (as it should), pluck 
them out with all the force you can spare.
Giovanni
They claim to be rivals to our power and position. 
Indeed, perhaps they could be if they would leave their 
crypts and concentrate on the here and now rather than 
the dead past. This fixation on ghosts and ancestor-spirits is 
really quite unbecoming. It would be funny if it weren’t so 
grotesque. Still, like any guest, one must watch them when 
they show their faces in your home. Never let them get a 
foothold in your territory, and never give them quarter.


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
75
Ravnos
They claim to have honor, but so do all thieves. 
Their mongrel heritage, their penchant for tricks and 
their vagabond attitude all make them less than desirable 
company. Indeed, one need not tolerate their presence 
at all. Drive them on to the next city — it’s better than 
the filthy bastards deserve. Temper your mistrust of them 
with pity, however, for they have lost their last chance.
Disciplines
The Kindred’s supernatural abilities set them far 
beyond the mortal herds. It is these powers — coupled 
with their deathlessness — that give Kindred, and par-
ticularly the Ventrue, the right to do as they please and 
seize what they will in this world. In conversation, the 
Ventrue seldom refer to their Disciplines by name or 
even acknowledge their existence openly. Most Ventrue 
consider Disciplines vulgar and inelegant crutches used 
by flawed Kindred to enact their will when their own 
capabilities fail. Even when using very specific powers, 
they use euphemisms that downplay their reliance on 
the supernatural gifts of Caine’s curse, such as, “I made 
him see things my way,” or, “He realized where his 
priorities were, and he came to see me.” Some Ventrue 
even prefer to think that all this power is an inherent 
part of their superior nature rather than some mental 
trick or “mystic curse.”
This section presents a few optional systems, again 
for use at the Storyteller’s discretion.
Fortitude
Members of the clan often handwave the physical 
prowess they possess, but they relish its uses. More than 
a few anarch uprisings have ended the moment some 
punk Lick went berserk, only to realize that his Ventrue 
foe hadn’t suffered even a scratch. The uses of the clan’s 
unnatural resilience are obvious, and they need little 
discussion except to point out one tactic. In such base 
displays as combat, many Ventrue pretend to suffer more 
damage and pain than they actually do. Doing so keeps 
their enemies off guard and keeps the true limits of the 
Discipline a secret. As another Ventrue saying goes, 
“Never let them take your true measure.”
Dominate
The Ventrue ability to Dominate others is a mixed 
blessing that’s useful when all else fails, but easy for lazy and 
boorish Ventrue to come to rely on. Without a doubt, it is 
one of the most useful talents a Kindred can possess. Many 
sires encourage their progeny to attain mastery in this art, 
with a stern warning against its casual use and abuse. This 
vital skill comes in handy time and again when dealing with 
mortals and even other Kindred. As a tool for preserving the 


Clanbook: Ventrue
76
Presence roll (one that would yield an effect that exceeds 
the player’s desired effect) and negate the extra successes, 
leaving her exactly enough to generate her intended result. 
The player may do so only once per scene. Presence is simply 
doing what it had been developed to do by Caine himself.
Curse the Laurel 
(Fortitude Level Seven)
This fearsome power allows the Kindred to overcome 
one of the traditional banes of the undead: the feared 
stake. With this mastery of Fortitude, the Ventrue may 
subsume a stake that pierces her heart, reshaping that 
dead organ slowly and insulating it from the offending 
wood. Once a given stake has been turned away with 
this power, it remains within the Kindred’s body, and it 
may even be visible beneath layers of clothing.
System: The player spends a permanent Willpower 
point and rolls Stamina + Survival (difficulty 9). The 
number of successes indicates the length of time that 
elapses before the Kindred’s body rejects the stake, al-
lowing her to rise from immobilization.
Each use of this power affects only one stake. If the 
Kindred suffers the same fate again, she may make a new 
attempt if the player chooses to spend the Willpower 
again. If the roll to use the power is a botch, the body 
does not expel the stake, and no further attempt may 
be made against that particular stake.
Masquerade, it is penultimate, second only to not breaching 
the Masquerade in the first place. Ventrue become particu-
larly adept at weaving their mental suggestion into normal 
speech patterns. A talented Ventrue can integrate commands 
so subtly over the course of a long, normal conversation, 
that the subject has no idea what is happening. The Ventrue 
might ask the same question several times before phrasing 
the inquiry with a mesmeric command attached to it. The 
target thinks he has simply slipped up or been fooled into 
revealing something he didn’t mean to, but he has no idea 
that coercion of any kind took place.
Presence
The mystical force of personality most Ventrue 
acquire is a more subtle power than Dominate, even in 
its rawest form. Mortals who fall under its sway seldom 
think anything supernatural is going on at all, nor do they 
have any evidence to suggest that anything particularly 
untoward has happened. The one problem with Presence 
abilities is that they too often become overwhelming. 
Sometimes a Ventrue does not wish to scare a mortal 
into abject terror or cause someone to develop a love-
like attachment to her. In these cases, the Ventrue have 
learned to use more subtle applications of their power.
System: At the Storyteller’s discretion, the player 
may spend a Willpower point after making a too-successful 


Chapter Two: The King is Dead, Long Live the King
77
One success		
One year
Two successes	
Six months
Three successes	
One month
Four successes	
One week
Five successes	
One night
After the stake has been turned away from the 
heart, it remains in the Kindred’s body, overgrown by 
dead flesh and probably protruding at an unsettling 
angle. The Kindred may cut the stake out at any time 
she wishes thereafter, suffering two health levels of ag-
gravated damage in the process.
MET System: To use this power, the Kindred must 
spend one permanent Willpower Trait and succeed in 
a Static Physical Challenge (nine Trait difficulty). If 
successful, he spends one to five temporary Physical 
Traits with the following results:
One Trait	 	
One year
Two Traits	 	
Six months
Three Traits	
One month
Four Traits	 	
One week
Five Traits	 	
One night
The power works in the same fashion as the Story-
teller version in all other particulars.
New Merit
The following Trait, like all Merits and Flaws, is 
optional for use in a Storyteller’s chronicle. For more 
details on Merits and Flaws, see Vampire: The Mas-
querade, p.295-296.
Paragon (6-pt. Social Merit)
The Embrace has awakened within you an aspect 
of personality that others find particularly compelling. 
You may select one Background from the following 
group: Allies, Black Hand Membership, Clan Prestige, 
Contacts, Fame, Herd, Influence, Mentor, Resources, 
Retainers, Sabbat Status or Status. Your maximum 
Trait score in that Background may exceed your normal 
generation limit by one. For example, a 10th-generation 
Kindred may take this Merit and enjoy the benefits of a 
Contacts Background of 6. You may take this Merit for 
only one Background, which may drop (and thereafter 
possibly rise again) at the Storyteller’s discretion. Players 
should choose this Merit only for a Background that 
makes sense — a Camarilla archon is unlikely to have a 
Black Hand Membership Background of 7, for example.
MET System: This Merit allows the player to choose 
one Background Trait (Allies, Black Hand Membership, 
Clan Prestige, Contacts, Fame, Herd, Influence — any one 
area — Mentor, Resources, Retainers) for his character to 
excel in. The player can purchase one Background Trait 
beyond the maximum normally allowed by Generation. 
For example, a player who plays a ninth-generation 
Ventrue may select Resources, allowing him to purchase 
six Resources Background Traits for his character. As 
stated previously, the Background should make sense.
Denial of Aphrodite’s Favor 
(Dominate •••, Fortitude •••)
Developed centuries ago, this power protects the 
Ventrue from the skills at which they and the Toreador 
excel. While the powers of Presence may be more subtle 
than those of Dominate, they are no less effective. Denial 
of Aphrodite’s Favor allows the Ventrue to protect himself 
from emotional manipulation with the same efficacy that 
his generation affords him against Dominate.
System: Once learned, this power negates the 
effects of Presence Levels One through Three used by 
any Kindred of higher generation than the Kindred. 
Thus, a ninth-generation Ventrue would be unaf-
fected by a 12th-generation Kindred attempting to 
use Dread Gaze upon her.
It costs 20 experience points to learn this power.
MET System: This power allows the Kindred to 
ignore the use of Awe, Dread Gaze or Entrancement by 
any vampire of higher generation than the Kindred.
Denial of Aphrodite’s Favor costs 10 Experience Traits.
Lifesong (Dominate •, Presence •)
This power allows the Ventrue to assess any single 
statement made by the subject and look for the es-
sence of that subject’s being beneath the words she 
speaks. The Ventrue needs to speak no words himself; 
he simply interprets the statement offered to him.
System: The player makes an Intelligence + 
Empathy roll (difficulty equal to the subject’s Ma-
nipulation + Expression). With even a single success, 
the Ventrue determines the subject’s Demeanor from 
the statement, finding profound meaning in the most 
common of utterances. This power works only upon 
living creatures — Kindred lack the spark of life that 
colors the words they speak.
It costs four experience points to learn this power.
MET System: This power requires a Mental 
Challenge (retest with Empathy) to discern the 
target’s Demeanor. As stated previously, the power 
does not work on Kindred.
Lifesong costs two Experience Traits.


Clanbook: Ventrue
78


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
79
He takes great pride in doing things like… ordering a $40 
million Gulfstream V jet by e-mail, or buying a twenty-four-
thousand-square-foot mansion and leaving it nearly empty of 
furniture. His motto, his philosophy, his raison d’être, can be 
summed up in three little words: Because I can.
— Mike Sager, “Yeaahhh, Baaaaabyy”
Chapter Three: 
Of August Blood
To many Kindred, the Ventrue clan has the dis-
tinction of being The Man, the power that is, the 
omnipresence of paranoid or overbearing princes and 
the stodgy voice of pragmatism that prevents the other 
childer of Caine from enjoying the few moments of 
undeath not punctuated by loneliness and hunger.
But consider unlife from the perspective of the 
Ventrue themselves. Many Blue Bloods spend their 
unlives held to traditions and a noble obligation that 
they never asked for. Childer suffer their elders’ demands 
of service, fealty and duty, warned that chivalry and 
legacy binds them. Those same elders plot and scheme 
against each other and anyone else who crosses their 
paths, stabbing others in the back for resources, power, 
contacts — anything that could conceivably give them 
an edge over the next rival. Being Embraced by a Ven-
true is not unlike being drawn into an abusive family; 
having to subsist on blood and never see the sun only 
adds insult to the injury.
The truth of all clans extends to the Ventrue: Any 
automatic assumption one has for them based on their 
lineage sells them short. Over the years, the clan has 
certainly harbored its share of egomaniacal rogues and 
arrogant aristos. It has also numbered racketeers, murder-
ers, saints and champions. The ranks of financiers and 
politicos hide individual artists, thieves and soldiers. 
Many would-be usurpers realize too late that the Ventrue 
is not the man who stands before him but the woman 
who stands, smiling, behind him, providing him with 
the power he needs to fulfill his desires.
The following, then, is a small cross-section of the 
cosmopolitan ranks of Clan Ventrue. Take them at face 
value, if you wish — but only at your own risk.


Clanbook: Ventrue
80
 Gambler
Quote: You know what? I don’t think you’ve got it. 
You didn’t draw that seven did you? All you’re holding is a 
busted straight. Go ahead. Fold. There’s a good boy.
Prelude: To hear people tell it, the gambling industry 
takes in more money than print, radio, television and 
movies combined. That’s a lot of money. You wanted 
your share. Hell, you wanted more than your share.
Before your Embrace you’d never gambled in your 
life. Gambling was for suckers. The house had everything 
stacked in its favor. Gambling was no way to get rich, and 
rich is just what you wanted to be in your previous life. 
So you took the traditional route: business school, MBA, 
full-service stockbroker. Yawn. You hated every minute of 
it. People talk about the excitement of the market, the ups 
and downs, but to you it was just numbers on 
a screen. You like to see cash in hand and 
deal with people face to face. You’re a born 
salesman, but the fact is, the real money — 
the drop-dead, I’m-a-fucking-millionaire 
money — is all part of a larger picture. You 
can’t get it selling cars or houses or even 
airplanes. (You know; you tried all three.)
Then came your Embrace and initia-
tion into Clan Ventrue and your training. 
Wow. Wow. More than you could 
have ever imagined. You could 
control people’s thoughts! You 
could change their memories! 
You could even make them 
like you! Money… hell, 
money would just come to 
you. Or so you thought. Ex-
cept the other Ventrue in 
the city had all the lucra-
tive domains locked up. 
You had no avenues 
open and nowhere to 
go. Nowhere except the 
casino, as it turned out.
Thus went your introduc-
tion into the world of underground 
gambling, and you’ve been delving 
deeper and deeper ever since. Back-
room card games, casino games, alley 
games — you know how to buy the 
odds on all of them. Now you run your 
own business that takes and covers bets 
on everything, including (and espe-
cially) the local racetrack and sports 
teams. With a visit to the jockey, the 
star player or the coach, you can not 
only find out the game plan, but you can make them 
change it. The fix is in, and you put it there.
Concept: You’re a gambler but not a 
risk-taker. You never bet unless you know 
the outcome. Although you present 
yourself to the world as an unpredict-
able thrill-seeker, you’re actually as 
cold and calculating as they come. 
It’s all about setting the odds in your 
favor, whether it’s a card game or 
high Kindred politics.
Roleplaying 
Hints: You 
look to suc-
ceed in the 
most unlikely 
ways — there’s 
always an angle that 
no one else has figured yet. 
Never show concern, never 
let them see how hard you 
have to work to make things 
go your way. As far as the rest of the 
world can tell, everything comes 
naturally to you, and you act like you 
expect just that.
Equipment: Deck of cards, a wad 
of bills that could choke a horse, slick 
clothes and an attitude to match


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
81
Preacher
Quote: God has shown me the sin in your hearts! Hear 
His words as I speak them to you and rejoice, for I shall 
show you the road to Heaven!
Prelude: As the third son of a very religious, con-
servative, middle-class family, you grew up in churches. 
Of course, you went the opposite way: leftist, atheist 
and argumentative.
Then it was time for life in the real world. You started 
working for a weird one — a mysterious, eccentric busi-
nessman you never saw in person for the first year. His was 
interesting work, analyzing business plans and corporate 
takeovers, liaising with lawyers and representatives from 
other companies. Strangest of all, the businessman had 
numerous ties to various church groups, and he donated 
money to every denomination in the city.
When the night came that your employer finally 
revealed his Ventrue nature, you were naturally more 
frightened than intrigued. By the following sunset, you 
were immortal, and your soul was 
(theoretically) damned forever.
For the first time in your 
life… er, unlife, you’re doing 
something that would make 
your father proud: You’re 
a preacher. In fact, thanks 
to your Kindred abilities, 
you’re one of the best, most 
highly attended 
preachers in the city. Thousands flock to 
hear you tell them the word of God… and 
who to vote for and what to think. As your 
flock grows, your inner circle of adherents 
grows as well. Men and women are willing 
to lay down their lives for you and follow you 
against Satan’s armies. Even politicians are 
coming to you, asking you to help get out the 
vote for their cause. And you thought Sunday 
school was pointless and boring.
Concept: Your influence within the local 
religious community has raised more than a few 
eyebrows. As a high-profile, public figure, you’re 
attracting more attention than most of your elders 
consider wise. Once your Kindred powers become great 
enough, you can disappear safely behind the scenes. But 
for now, they require your personal attention and touch.
Roleplaying Hints: You started your religious career 
as a firebrand and rousing speaker, and you can still 
preach a killer sermon when you need to. Now, though, 
you’ve toned it down a bit, becoming the respectable 
zealot. You speak softly, with a voice calm and treacle, 
deceptive words. Think Jerry Falwell and Mr. Rogers 
rolled into one devilish persona.
Equipment: Cross, Bible, cell phone and electronic 
organizer with the number of every Republican leader 
in the city


Clanbook: Ventrue
82


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
83
Generalissimo
Quote: All right, gentlemen, this is the plan. You follow 
this plan to the letter, and we won’t have any problems. You 
deviate from this plan, and your biggest problem isn’t those 
Camarilla pussies, it’s the guy standing in front of you right 
now. Do I make myself clear?
Prelude: You wanted to make the military your life, 
and indeed that’s just what you did. You enlisted at age 
17, fought in Vietnam, then transferred to Europe where 
you served for most of the rest of the Cold War. Then, 
it was on to Washington, the Pentagon, the rank of 
lieutenant and… that was it. After 22 years of service, 
they forced you into a pension at age 40. Now what? 
Disgruntled and unable to find work in civilian life that 
could keep you happy, you’d just about come to the end 
of your rope. You’d even started looking at mercenary 
companies in the back of those God-awful magazines.
Then things changed. A beautiful woman 
showed up at your door one night and, you, to 
your surprise, just let her in. The two of you 
talked until just an hour before dawn. Just talked. 
And you revealed everything there was to know 
about yourself. Not only couldn’t you help it, 
you didn’t want to. You were glad to finally get 
it all off your chest.
These nights, three years later, you 
know the truth. She sought you out 
because of your background, be-
cause you knew how to lead but 
had no one to command. She 
was looking for a commander, 
a leader in a time of crisis and her 
search brought her to you. She 
could make you into everything 
she needed. She told you all 
this, flat out. She was going 
to train you to lead again in 
a new kind of war. A secret 
war fought in the night and 
over centuries.
Now, it’s like you’ve 
started all over again. Your 
Embrace made you a newbie, a 
trainee. And you certainly didn’t know 
a damn thing about being a vampire. 
Now you do, though. You’re part of a 
clan that’s dedicated to taking back 
the ground it lost long ago. You’ve got 
a noble heritage and fine traditions, 
just like you had in the army.
Concept: You loved the army, 
every God-damned minute of it. You 
loved the authority, the discipline and the abil-
ity to give an order and expect it to be carried out. 
Now the enemy is Camarilla “Kindred” and 
the slumbering blood-gods, instead of 
the Viet Cong or Saddam Hussein. 
You’ve moved up quickly in just 
three years, and you already 
hold the honorific of True 
Sabbat. You’re a ductus, and 
maybe you’ll be a priscus one 
night. You’ve got your sights 
set on the very top, and if it 
takes 500 years to get there, 
so be it. Until the elders rise, 
you’ve got all the time in 
the world.
Roleplaying Hints: 
You are a leader. You expect 
those below you to follow your 
orders without question or delay. You 
are also a follower. When a leader 
gives you a task, your whole being 
focuses on getting it done. You are, 
in essence, the perfect soldier. The 
only thing is, leading is a whole lot 
better than following….
Equipment: Colt M1911A1, 
black hummer, flak vest (just 
in case)


Clanbook: Ventrue
84
Silicon Success Story
Quote: You see the microprocessors…? All right, let me 
try to explain it this way. Imagine this box is a magic machine 
— no, it’s not really magic — full of millions of tiny invest-
ment bankers doing your taxes for you…. Ok fine, it’s magic.
Prelude: The magazines all say that nowhere in the 
history of the world has more money been made faster 
than in Silicon Valley during the late 1990s. Well, it 
may or may not be true so far as the world is concerned, 
but it was sure as hell true for you. At 27 years old, your 
net worth was just shy of $33 million. Not bad for a guy 
who never finished college. You thought that you were 
made for life. You had conquered the world and mas-
tered your chosen field, so now it was time to enjoy it. 
You’d cashed in your Yahoo! shares, paid the IRS its 
cut and still had more millions than you were likely to 
spend. Not that you didn’t try — you bankrolled an en-
tertainment portal company almost solely out-of-pocket. 
Then, one of the biggest venture-capital guys on Sand 
Hill Road asked if he could meet you for dinner one 
night. Sure, you said, why not?
Well, it turns out that you weren’t the only guest. 
There was another guy, a young-looking suit from back 
east. Very corporate; very prim and proper. The suit started 
asking questions about what you thought the next big thing 
was going to be, what you knew about cryptography, 
vulnerabilities within the company you’d just helped 
start and a ton of other questions you normally would 
never have answered. Without really thinking about 
it, you told this guy everything he 
wanted to know.
The same thing hap-
pened the next night and 
the next and the night after 
that. One night, you never 
returned home at all.
Now you’re Kindred, just like 
the man in the suit who sired you. You work 
for him, and you’re working harder than ever, 
only instead of writing code you’re handling computer 
problems for a group of 500+-year-old vampires who 
don’t even know what a computer looks like. With 
these guys, $33 million is chump change, and you’re 
at the bottom of the pile again.
Concept: The Ventrue have opened your eyes 
to possibilities beyond mere money. They have real 
power, the power to make people do things, to make 
people respect them, to buy the world if they want. 
Now that power can be yours as well, if only you 
have the balls to take it. You’ve been told that ac-
cumulating dignitas takes decades, even centuries. 
But you’re fresh out of Silicon Valley, 
and you don’t wait decades for anything, 
especially some centuries-outdated 
business model. You’ve already 
learned more about the 
Ventrue through their 
computers than they 
want you to. Now all 
you need to do is figure 
out how to use that 
information to your 
advantage.
Roleplaying 
Hints: You’re not 
the most socially adept 
creature, mostly because 
you don’t care. You see the 
world and the people in it as 
problems to be solved and 
code to be written. You have 
little patience, especially for 
ignorance and incompetence.
Equipment: Kick-ass com-
puter on a T3 line, PCS phone, 
beeper, Palm Pilot, electronic 
organizer and any other gizmo 
that’ll save you 15 seconds in 
a night


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
85


Clanbook: Ventrue
86
Eyes of the Ephors
Quote: May I get you anything else, sir? No? I’ll leave 
this tray here in case you want some more. I’ll be right outside 
the door if you need me.
Prelude: Your unlife began three decades ago, but 
it has been slow going for you ever since. You grew up 
the last scion of a fading noble family. Your name had 
all the right syllables and titles but none of the money 
to back them up. By the time you’d graduated from 
school and were casting about for universities, father had 
gone from being a drunk to a member of some strange 
religious sect. The bank took the house, and you were 
left as alone as you’d always been.
Except for Uncle Karl. A long-time friend of your 
father’s, the years had been kind to him. You received 
an invitation to come hunting at his rural estate as a 
graduation gift from an old family supporter. “Uncle 
Karl” is, in fact, a powerful Ventrue and a leader in 
the clan’s complex hierarchy. His sprawling estate 
covers several thousand acres and hosts regular 
Ventrue gatherings.
Karl himself did not sire you. “Karl” is not even 
his true name, although you could not say what his 
real name might be. He hosts a number of Ventrue of 
all generations at his sanctum, sometimes 
a dozen at once, maybe more. He asked 
one of his younger guests to sire you. It 
seems that Karl does not trust anyone 
but Kindred to serve him, but he does 
not think it wise to bestow his powerful 
blood indiscriminately upon neonates 
destined for nothing but service.
Despite your initial resentment, 
you served your hostswell, and some of 
them even came to trust you in time. 
When you managed, through sheer 
happenstance, to overhear a private 
conversation between two guests that 
interested your master greatly, you 
passed on the information and earned 
the best reward possible: your freedom. 
Karl began training you for service in 
the outside world of Kindred politics.
Concept: You want to do the 
best you can to escape from under 
your master’s thumb. That means 
acquiring dignitas on your own 
merits through the normal means. 
If you play your cards right, you 
can use your elder connections 
to further your personal career. 
The only danger comes if your 
elders discover how you’re using 
them. Will they reward your 
initiative or punish you for 
your insolence? 
Roleplaying Hints: 
You are out on your own 
now, with substantial 
financial and political 
backing from Karl and 
his estate. This existence 
is not true freedom, 
however. In fact, it’s utter 
dependency. Although none of 
the local Ventrue know it, your 
only real purpose in unlife is to 
report information to Karl (and the 
ephors, by extension). Although you 
are proud of your heritage, you have 
no use or feelings for the Ventrue with 
whom you share the city. Every bit of 
gossip and every iota of scandalous 
information that you relay proves your 
worthiness and helps you rise within 
the Ventrue ranks.
Equipment: Leased Bentley, ex-
tensive designer wardrobe, secure PCS 
phone, miniature cassette recorder, 
stake, personal organizer


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
87
Domain-Raider
Quote: Now, officially, the janitorial staff doesn’t 
work for the police department. The janitors work for the 
city. Technically speaking, they’re not part of your domain. 
Prelude: You have no intention of waiting, not one 
more moment than you have to. You came into Clan 
Ventrue like many neonates: a promising businesswoman 
snatched up by elders who needed someone who could 
understand and exploit the new market opportunities. 
You were never meant to be much more than a flunky, 
an eternal second-stringer to add to your sire’s coffers. 
They cursed you with immortality and expected you to 
pay off the debt. Once you’ve done that (i.e., once you’re 
not the expert on the next hot new market thing), it’s 
either sink or swim on your own.
Except you’re ready to swim right now. Swim-
ming means building your own fortune, your own 
network of contacts and eventually your own 
brood of aides to make your calls and take your 
meetings. It’s certainly a dream worth striving for, 
one your elders even encourage you to have. They 
just expect you to take a few decades to achieve it. 
Not gonna happen that way.
Why the big wait? The clan 
elders have everything all tied 
up and claimed as part of their 
respective domains. Hands off, 
no trespassing, this means 
you, fuck off. Fine. You just 
had to work a little harder 
here and there. Nobody ever 
made any rules against watch-
ing what would slip through those 
elders’ talons and taking what they 
can’t keep nailed down.
As you should have realized from 
start, the only reason young Kindred 
had any influence at all was because 
it’s impossible — even for an elder 
Ventrue — to have his thumb in 
every pie in all but the smallest cit-
ies. In the end, though, most of the 
“scraps” are more trouble than they’re 
worth. Shaking down the Chili’s and 
the Blockbuster in the suburbs is small 
potatoes. If you’re going to make it big, 
you’ll have to do it by taking from those 
who’ve actually got something worth 
taking. The problem is, you can’t go 
head-to-head with an elder yet. First 
of all, he’d probably smash you like a 
bug. Second, it’s against the dignities 
or something, and the last thing you want 
to do is to cause a public ruckus, because 
it’s the quickest way to make sure that 
the elders notice you.
Concept: You’ve devoted your 
time to finding unique, technically 
legal methods for stealing from 
other Kindred. You do nothing to 
interfere with, steal or otherwise 
sway an elder’s contacts. Of course, 
this tactic makes for dangerous 
enemies, but maybe a couple of new 
associates in high places as well. Next 
point on the agenda: Find a new target 
and pluck it for your growing collection.
Roleplaying Hints: You like to act 
quickly, decisively and ultimately with 
certainty. You don’t rush in, but you don’t 
hesitate when the time comes. Always 
act with respect toward your elders — 
even when your hand’s in their pocket. 
The key to your success is acting like 
everything you do is perfectly legal and 
acceptable, even when it’s not.
Equipment: Leather appointment 
book, rolodex of city employees and 
union bosses, late-model Audi for busi-
ness meetings, ragged Ford pickup for 
meeting less sophisticated types


Clanbook: Ventrue
88


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
89
Remover
Quote: Time to die, motherfucker.
Prelude: You knew the score since before you were 
old enough to screw — nobody ever fucks with the guy 
who has the power. Everybody in your neighborhood 
talked about being thugs. Everybody had their line of 
hardcore bullshit to tell any time somebody talked smack.
They were all liars, of course. If you stood up to them, 
they backed down like the pussy-ass niggaz they were. 
You made your reputation by doing just that: standing 
up to the loudmouthed bitches and giving them an 
unholy beat-down if they didn’t recognize.
The sad thing was, you knew you weren’t going 
to make it. You were smart 
enough to realize that 
somebody badder than 
you is always going to be 
out there, and thug life 
means that you would 
run across him sooner 
or later.
Turns out, 
it wasn’t a 
him, but a 
her — some 
crazy white 
bitch from 
a  
g a n g 
called the 
Sabbath. 
You hit 
her clear in the face six, maybe seven times, but she just 
stood there, laughing, calling you out. When you went 
for shot number eight, she grabbed your wrist, jerked 
that shit backward, hard, and pulled your arm out of 
socket. Then she laid down a beating a motherfucker’s 
never had in his life.
Concept: Since your Embrace, you’ve joined your 
sire’s gang, and you soon found yourself talking to one 
of the fucked-up “gangs-within-the-gang” or some shit. 
Motherfuckers called themselves the Black Hand. It 
sounded good enough to you — a chance to do what 
you were good at and earn props doing it. Still, that first 
kill was rough — but they get progressively easier, now 
that you know not to care. Or so they keep telling you.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re fucking invulnerable, if 
not on your own, then with the Sabbat crew behind you. 
These Black Hand bitches keep telling you that the kill 
is more important than all your posturing, but that’s 
because they’re old and they’ve lost touch. Everyone 
on the street knows that it’s what juice all the bitches 
know you can turn loose on them that matters. 
They’ve got to know you’re hard, like they’ve 
got to know you earn the bank.
Equipment: Cell phone, Lincoln 
Navigator, Tommy Hilfiger and 
Hugo Boss wardrobe, two beepers, 
cheap pistol, Roman-style gladius 
(for when the business is Cainites)


Clanbook: Ventrue
90
Historian
Quote: I think you’ll find that precedent is against you, 
sir. The third childe of a prince has always had the rights my 
friend here asserts. It’s tradition.
Prelude: You never expected, nor wanted an excit-
ing life. What you like best are stories: reading them, 
telling them, discovering new ones. The best stories, of 
course, are the true ones. That’s why you went to gradu-
ate school and became a professor: so you could get paid 
for telling true stories.
You were always a bit of a maverick in your depart-
ment (your one concession to an exciting life). Instead 
of wars, politics or sweeping social movements, though, 
your research focused on the strange and 
bizarre: ancient magical practices, cryp-
tozoology, myths of fairies and monsters. 
None of it was true, of course. No such 
thing as magic existed, and monsters 
resided solely in fairy tales. The fact 
that people actually believed in these 
things, that they let these beliefs run their 
lives — now, that’s a good story.
Except of course, as it turned out, it wasn’t 
a story at all. It was the truth. You took an 
interest in vampire myths. The more you 
dug into the subject, the more interesting 
it became. On a trip to Katmandu, you 
dropped your research on legends of hairy 
hominids in the Indian subcontinent and 
turned exclusively to vampires.
Five months later, you had nearly 
enough for a great book, maybe even 
a popular book. Then one night, 
you received a call from the — as 
you now know — inevitable visi-
tor. What you did not know at 
the time was that he was a 
Ventrue, sent by the city’s 
concerned prince to check 
up on you and make sure 
you hadn’t found anything 
you shouldn’t. As it turns out, 
you’d managed to find quite a 
bit that you shouldn’t. You knew 
about Caine, about clans, about 
the Inquisition, even about the Cama-
rilla. Hey, you’re good at what you do. 
It turns out you’d uncovered some stuff 
even he didn’t know. It wasn’t long 
before he Embraced you.
Concept: You spend your nights researching 
Ventrue history, searching for ancient artifacts 
and occasionally helping your fellow Kindred 
in disputes with other members of the clan 
or the race of Caine. But the Ventrue blood 
in you is beginning to sour. You’re growing 
tired of helping others. It’s time to start help-
ing yourself. It’s time to add some judicious 
excitement to your own, personal story.
Roleplaying Hints: You are quiet, watch-
ful and ultimately as ambitious as any of your 
breed. You’ve fought for tenure before, and 
the game of Kindred politics isn’t that different. 
Wait for the moment to reveal what you know, 
and use it to its fullest respect. You have the 
authority of knowledge, something you’re not 
slow to lord over the less informed.
Equipment: Library of Ventrue and Kin-
dred history, laptop with a concordance of clan 
traditions and precedent, diary of every offense 
every Kindred in the city has made that you know 
about, Japanese sedan


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
91


Clanbook: Ventrue
92
Vitaephile
Quote: Oh, a fine vintage, that one. A saucy young 
French from Bordeaux. Rosemonde was her name, I believe.
Prelude: In life, you were an account executive for 
a radio station. You had a natural gift for gab, for read-
ing people and convincing them that radio ads would 
serve their needs. For you the job was always just a way 
to put food on the table. Not just food, but wine, too. 
Actually, wine especially.
You loved wine. You loved the taste, the effect, the 
history, the culture, the snobbery. Selling air-time made 
you a wealthy woman, but it was all 
so you could improve your cellar.
Then you met your future 
sire, who had been watching 
you and playing the part 
of a sommelier at Harold’s 
Studio downtown. It was a 
“deal-breaker” at first. What 
was the point of being im-
mortal if you couldn’t enjoy 
a good Bordeaux? You 
couldn’t see one at 
all. Then you tasted 
blood, not for the 
first time, but for 
the first time when 
you didn’t have 
the Beast inside 
you howling for 
sustenance. It was 
delicious, divine, 
inspiring — sen-
sual. Wine paled 
to nothing in 
comparison. You were 
hooked. 
For you, vitae has 
become an obsession. 
You’ve made contact 
with other Ventrue 
throughout the world 
who share your tastes. 
Moreover, you’ve made 
a point of learning the 
tastes of every other 
Kindred in the vicinity, 
and many throughout 
the world. This knowl-
edge, coupled with your 
passion for finding the 
best blood available, has led you into a unique niche: 
purveyor of fine vitae.
Concept: You watch mortals, seduce them to your 
haven, feed them certain foods or chemicals, subject 
them to certain stimuli — you’re even doing research 
on a long-term breeding project to bring out certain nu-
ances in their vitae. Like a vintner, you monitor every 
step, producing blood that tastes not only delicious, but 
complex. Most of the time, the herds from which you 
draw your blood don’t even know what’s going on. Of 
course occasionally, for an especially rare vintage, you 
take a mortal and keep it under controlled circumstances, 
nurturing it along until it’s just right.
Roleplaying Hints: Other Kindred, not only Ven-
true, pay premium prices for your intoxicating blends. 
Wealthy beyond your needs, you seldom take money 
in exchange for your wondrous vintages any longer. 
Instead, you trade blood for favors. More than a few 
Kindred in the city have become… enthusiastic… about 
your vitae, unable to resist its charms and unable to find 
it anywhere but from you. Thus far, your specialty has 
earned you much praise and recognition, but you know 
that the true market remains untapped. Fine Kindred 
vitae is far more tantalizing and far more dangerous.…
Equipment: Shunts, needles, syringes, air-tight flasks 
for storing your samples, English luxury sedan with a 
refrigeration unit built into the trunk, wine cellar at 
your haven


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
93
Diablerist
Quote: It’s the Blood, baby… the power’s all in the 
Blood, and don’t let any craven elder tell you otherwise.
Prelude: Nothing about your Embrace ever signi-
fied that you’d be destined for anything other than the 
most common and unpleasant unlife. It was a prosaic 
affair: Your sire met you at a nightclub, convinced you 
to return to his lair, fed on you and then Embraced you 
in a fit of self-loathing and remorse. How utterly unin-
spired. So mundane, in fact, that you didn’t even feel 
much sympathy for him when he met his final reward.
In fact, your sire was more lackadaisical than any-
thing else. Sure, he instructed you in the ways and 
traditions of the Kindred. He explained the 
noble legacy of the Ventrue, which was actu-
ally a bit ironic, because he was neither rich 
nor particularly guileful. He even warned 
you of the dire amaranth — much to 
his own dismay.
When you parted ways, you 
fell in with a crew of anarchs for 
a while. Not that they were par-
ticularly useful, but they did 
let you in on the truth 
about diablerie. The 
night you went with 
them on one of their 
elder raids was the 
night your eyes truly 
opened. Within a 
month, you vis-
ited the same 
fate upon your 
own sire. And 
then another 
Kindred. And 
then another…
Concept: You 
are a rogue and an 
anathema, availing 
yourself of the blood of 
elders in your own quest 
for power. Those who 
know you for what you 
are usually hate you, but 
you know they feel that 
way because they fear you. 
In your mind, you are bold 
and innovative, throwing 
off the hypocritical social 
contracts the elders impose 
upon their childer to protect themselves. To 
others, you are the Devil herself, waiting in 
the shadows with a smile to collect their souls 
and send them to Hell. In fact, you know that 
it’s only a matter of time before someone “does 
something” about you or the Beast claims 
you utterly — but you’ll be damned if you’ll 
give up easily. Until then, it’ll be one wild, 
bloody ride.
Roleplaying Hints: You drink the vitae 
of Kindred for the rush. In fact, you don’t 
even limit yourself to lower-generation blood 
anymore. Sometimes, you drink from Kindred just 
because their blood is so much more delectable 
than the thin, soupy blood of mortals. You hunt 
other Kindred with stealth, catching them in 
the late hours as they return to their havens or 
before they depart for the night. You’ve given 
your coterie no reason not to trust you — well, 
besides the fact that they’re terrified that 
you’ll come after them one night — but you 
can see the suspicion and fear in their eyes. 
It used to make you feel remorseful. Now it 
just makes you dismissive of their cowardice. 
Equipment: Note pad with scribbled 
reminders and clues about other Kindred’s 
havens, stakes, ornate knife, Jaguar stolen 
from a diablerized elder


Clanbook: Ventrue
94


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
95
Sample Brood: 
Bile’s Gambit
Contrary to popular opinion, the Blue Bloods do not 
simply move into a city and “control” all of the mortal 
resources by “manipulating” everyone they see, insisting 
that everyone acknowledge their authority. Attaining 
prominence, power and dignitas requires more than some 
vague notion of supremacy. It requires precise action in the 
realms of finance, society and politics. Police departments 
don’t just roll over for the toughest Kindred to barge past 
their precinct doors, his eyes ablaze with Dominate and 
his mien exuding Presence-fired charisma. Indeed, many 
Ventrue specialize, focusing on the resources that they 
can best turn to their profit. A venture-capitalist may 
work hard at creating a new financial base for himself 
in a new city; a politico might extend favors to election 
hopefuls or silence threats to incumbents in return for 
that official’s debt. Many times, these individuals form 
coteries or consortiums (see Chapter Two), which not 
only allow them to present a more stable front to rivals, 
it sometimes allows them to usurp influence traditionally 
claimed by more established Kindred.
Being the sect champions of the Masquerade has 
taught the Ventrue valuable lessons about keeping a low 
profile and using deception to their advantage. Therefore, 
while closely tied in private, the members of this brood 
display little concern or care for each other when other 
eyes are watching. The brood operates relatively indepen-
dently, each facing the city’s problems and opportunities 
from a different angle. This strategy is typical of Ventrue 
in a new city, although few realize it because the clan 
makes such a show of their high finance and upper-class 
connections. While anti-clan sentiments focus on the 
“official” Ventrue presence, the brood’s less obvious mem-
bers have more freedom for their own pursuits. When 
and if the coterie’s true nature is revealed, it is usually too 
late: The Ventrue have already accomplished their goals.
Joao Bile, the Man Behind the Curtain
Background: Embraced nearly a century ago in Brazil, 
Bilé has only recently realized the chance to make a name 
for himself. He’s paid his dues, fulfilled his obligations and 
capitalized on his opportunities. Now, as new territory 
opens up, he has a chance to establish a brood and domain, 
perhaps even a princedom for himself. Bilé has learned a 
great deal at the feet of his sire and elders, and he now 
seeks to put that knowledge to the test. He has devised 
an intricate yet flexible plan for this grand new venture.
Bilé has decided to conceal his own presence in 
the city, and he plans to work through his three childer 
as much as possible. To this end, he has taken up the 
role of servant and counselor to his eldest, Michael 
Brandeis. While Michael assumes the role (and inherits 
the enemies) of a prominent Ventrue, Bilé can work 
behind the scenes. He presents this switching of roles to 
Michael as a great opportunity for the young Ventrue, 
although the youth suspects that Bilé’s motivations are 
not entirely altruistic.
As for the other two childer, Robin and Margarida, 
Bilé has equally duplicitous plans for them. Robin comes 
to the city an acknowledged Ventrue, ostensibly from 
another city and setting herself up in opposition to 
Michael. Bilé plans to promote her as the loyal opposi-
tion, a way to find out what influences other Camarilla 
members might devote themselves to nurturing. Mar-
garida comes to the city as a Caitiff. Bilé has not even 
told his other two childer about his third progeny. He 
plans to have Margarida ingratiate herself with the ranks 
of the anarchs, Brujah and possibly even any Sabbat in 
the region, wherein she can provide him with news on 
the plans of each dissenting faction.
Image: In public, the tall, thin, Bilé stands stooped 
over, his thin lips drawn back in a fawning smile. He 
looks to be the doting mentor in every respect, accepting 
his own decline and lending his experience to better 
his ward’s endeavors. Away from other Kindred, João 
stands erect, taller than his progeny, which allows him 
to glare down at them should they earn his derision. 
His salt-and-pepper hair and stern gaze give him an 
avuncular look that sets some Kindred at ease.
Roleplaying Hints: Before an audience, you defer 
to Michael in all things and seldom even meet the eyes 
`
~
`


Clanbook: Ventrue
96
of others. Take on an entirely meek and unassuming 
demeanor. When in private, your attitude changes 
entirely. You command your brood, your childer, with 
confident authority. Bark orders and become indignant 
if they’re not obeyed without question. You care only a 
little for the unlives of your brood. They are tools first 
and family a distant second, which is an outlook you 
do little to hide from them.
Sire: Therése Maurier
Nature: Competitor
Demeanor: Conformist
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1911
Apparent Age: late 40s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 5, Appearance: 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 3, Brawl 2, Empathy 1, Expression 2, 
Intimidation 4, Leadership 4, Style 2, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Crafts 3, Drive 1, Etiquette 3, Performance 3, 
Stealth 2
Knowledges: Academics 2, Bureaucracy 2, Computer 1, 
Finance 3, Investigation 2, Law, 2 Politics 4
Backgrounds: Contacts 1, Resources 4, Retainers 2, 
Status 3
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Dominate 4, Fortitude 4, Pres-
ence 3
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 5, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 6
Michael Brandeis, the Protege Progeny
Background: Michael Brandeis has been Kindred for 
only 10 years, all that time under the secret tutelage of his 
sire João Bilé. No one outside of Clan Ventrue (and few 
inside) knows that Bilé is actually Michael’s sire, which 
has been part of Bilé’s plan since before Michael’s Embrace. 
As a result, Michael has earned quite a reputation for one 
so young, acquiring numerous contacts and accolades in 
his brief unlife. Outwardly, he seems to be a prototypi-
cal Ventrue: calm, assured and decidedly self-confident.
Inside is a different matter entirely. In fact, Michael 
can scarcely make a move without his sire’s permission 
or guidance. Bilé overwhelms him like an abusive par-
ent. João assures the young Kindred constantly that he 
is worthless, and that Final Death would find him in a 
matter of hours without Bilé’s protection and guidance. 
For many years, Michael believed just that. He obeyed his 
sire’s orders to the letter, always playing the dutiful childe.
Now, with a new city lying open before him, Michael 
feels the first spark of rebellion. He sees the opportunity, 
but he also sees the danger. He has begun to realize that 
Bilé has placed him in the forefront as a kind of lightning 
rod. These nights are dangerous, and Michael is begin-
ning to suspect that he might not survive them if things 
continue on. For the time being, he plays his assigned 
role, letting the world think of Bilé as his aged counsel 
and of himself as the master. Should events present him 
with a chance to make that illusion real, he might just 
take advantage, if he can summon the courage to do so.
Image: Michael is a handsome man, with sandy 
hair and green eyes. He affects conservative clothes 
and manners, in order to play his role better. Michael 
stands just under six feet tall, with broad shoulders and 
an athletic physique. His eyes, however, let perceptive 
people know that beneath his calm veneer lies either 
doubt, fear or… something less definable.
Roleplaying Hints: You have a dry wit and a gener-
ally likeable personality when you choose to show it. You 
play your role as a leading Ventrue to the hilt, almost 
to the extent of a parody of your elders, the veriest ste-
reotype of others’ prejudices. From your royal airs and 
high-class sensibilities, one would never suspect that you 
become as submissive as a chastened child in private 
with Bilé. If anything, the hidden spark of rebellion in 
you makes you even more deferential in Bilé’s presence 
since you fear that your sire will find you out.
Sire: João Bilé
Nature: Masochist
Demeanor: Architect
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1989
Apparent Age: early 30s
`
`


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
97
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 2, Appearance 4
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Athletics 1, Expression 3, Grace 2, Leadership 3, 
Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Drive 2, Etiquette 2, Firearms 3, Performance 2, 
Stealth 1, Survival 1
Knowledges: Academics 2, Computer 1, Finance 3, Law 2, 
Linguistics (French, German, Portuguese, Spanish) 3, 
Occult 1
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 4, Herd 1, Mentor 2, 
Resources 4
Disciplines: Presence 4, Dominate 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 4
Robin Withers, the Rival
Background: Robin Withers served as legal coun-
sel to politicians and businessmen, as a high-powered 
attorney who put her career before all else. When she 
“died” in a car accident at age 40, the legal community 
mourned her passing. Her rebirth into vampiric undeath 
did not receive nearly as much attention. Robin is Bilé’s 
true favorite childe, the one he hopes to have sitting at 
his right side when all his ambitions become reality. As 
such, he spoils her (at least by his standards), allowing 
her more freedom than he allows his other two childer.
Robin herself appreciates the trust and confidence 
her sire vests in her, and she strives to please him. She 
comes to the city with a carefully contrived back-story. 
Even a detailed investigation into her past shows no 
connection with Bilé or Michael. She has existed apart 
from her sire for close to nine years, making a name for 
herself on her own. She has come to this newly opened 
city as a foil to her “elder,” Michael. Although she sup-
ports him publicly, as a good Ventrue should, she grumbles 
privately to other Kindred about his incompetence. She 
seeks allies among the Toreador, Tremere and Nosferatu, 
binding the clans together in their general distrust of the 
megalomaniac Ventrue.
Her ambitions do not extend beyond those of her 
sire. She sees Bilé’s scheme as brilliant, and she plans 
to play her part in it as best she can. She’ll follow his 
lead and earn the comfortable benefits thereafter. As 
long as she believes that her sire offers the best chance 
for achieving wealth, she will follow him wherever he 
directs her. Should he ever betray her trust, she would 
have no qualms about turning against him. As for her 
“brother” Michael, she holds him in slight regard. He 
is but a pawn who’s useful but ultimately disposable.
Image: A soft-looking woman in her 40s, Robin 
did not have much time for the gym or beauty salons 
when she was alive. From a certain perspective, she 
looks very much like a middle-class mother of three. She 
uses this disarming appearance along with a pleasant, 
matter-of-fact attitude to win over potential allies and 
make enemies underestimate her. In truth, she has a 
killer instinct, and — as her court record shows — she 
knows how to win.
Roleplaying Hints: You come across as a confidante, 
trusting (falsely) in others with the hopes of luring 
them into trusting you. You allow others to see your 
ambition, but not so much that it puts them off. Read 
other Kindred and determine just how much change 
they desire, then offer them just enough to earn their 
confidence. Greed is good, you’ve found. Other Kindred 
always want something, and you’re able to promise it 
to them. Sometimes, you even deliver.
Sire: João Bilé
Nature: Competitor
Demeanor: Conniver
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1976
Apparent Age: mid 40s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 2, Dodge 2, Intimidation 2, Leader-
ship 3, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Drive 2, Security 2, Stealth 1


Clanbook: Ventrue
98
Knowledges: Academics 3, Bureaucracy 2, Finance 3, 
Investigation 2, Law 4, Linguistics (Portuguese) 1, 
Politics 3
Backgrounds: Contacts 3, Mentor 1, Resources 4, 
Status 1
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Dominate 3, Obfuscate 2, 
Presence 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 5, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 5
Margarida Cordeiro, the Outcast
Background: Margarida Cordeiro is an uncommon 
Ventrue, cut from a different cloth than her brood siblings. 
Although she currently dresses and acts the part of a dis-
enfranchised Gen-X punk, that’s all it is: an act. In fact, 
Margarida is an actress. When Bilé conceived his plan, 
he knew he’d need to Embrace men and women capable 
of staying “in character,” acting their part for months or 
even years at a time. Therefore, he found Margarida’s 
talents most appealing, and he Embraced her into his 
brood secretly, something only his own sire knows about.
Having taken on the role of an anarch Toreador, 
Margarida acts the part with consummate skill. She 
has no contact with her fellow childer, and she reports 
to Bilé only via dead-letter drops, e-mail and other 
anonymous means. Although Bilé has quite explicit 
plans, Margarida has most of her time to herself to 
pursue her charge in her own way. An accomplished 
mimic and judge of character, she can blend easily into 
many social circles. She has already managed to earn 
herself acceptance among the local anarchs.
Bilé has given Margarida permission to do whatever 
she has to do to maintain her cover. She plots actively 
with her cohorts, breaking the traditions of Kindred 
and men with relative abandon. She has killed police 
officers, perpetrated arson and even committed diablerie 
(unknown to her sire). Margarida knows that she is a 
valuable asset to Bilé and that he’ll use his influence 
to help her out if she finds her way into any serious 
trouble with the authorities, which may well happen, 
given her new reckless bent. This assurance makes her 
all the more willing to “go wild” with her new friends, 
a trait they have come to respect in her. Of course, she 
passes on all the information she gathers to Bilé who 
then distributes it to Robin or Michael as he sees fit.
Image: Margarida is a strikingly beautiful, dark-
haired woman. She currently shaves her long hair each 
night and festoons herself with piercings and other 
appropriate accouterments.
Roleplaying Hints: In your role as an anarch, you are 
a loud, wild bully. Brash is an unlifestyle, not an attitude. 
In reality, you are actually a calm, thoughtful woman. You 
view Bilé as an employer more than a father figure, and 
you harbor no feelings for your two broodmates.
Sire: João Bilé
Nature: Thrill-Seeker
Demeanor: Fanatic
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1993
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 4
Mental: Perception 2, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 1, Athletics 2, Brawl 1, Dodge 2, 
Empathy 3, Intimidation 1, Intuition 2, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Animal Ken 1, Crafts 1, Drive 1, Firearms 1, 
Melee 2, Performance 2, Stealth 1
Knowledges: Academics 1, Investigation 4, Linguistics 
(English, Spanish) 2, Politics 1
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 1, Mentor 1, Resources 
1, Retainers 1
Disciplines: Celerity 1, Presence 2, Fortitude 3
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 4
The Revered Caste
Leaders behind the scenes, plotters too cagey to leave 
traces of their passing, wielders of vast wealth and bearers of 
tremendous influence — the Ventrue are all of these things 
and more. Like their ideological opposites, the Brujah, Clan 
Ventrue is a clan of contradictions. To hear them tell the 


Chapter Three: Of August Blood
99
tale, they rule other Kindred, while all but the most deluded 
know that rulership is practically outdated in the modern 
nights. Indeed, the successful Ventrue has either made her 
fortune in the past and survives on her bounty of dignitas, 
or she adopts the tactics the modern world demands. All 
but gone are the nights of Cainite lords issuing terrible 
decrees from craggy castles. These Final Nights demand 
subtlety and grace. The Ventrue warlord has given way 
to the Blue Blood advisor; nobles have stepped aside for 
power-brokers. Such are the demands of the Masquerade, 
which the Ventrue must uphold to truly prosper. The fol-
lowing, then, are a few of the most noteworthy Ventrue, 
outstanding in either their excellence at contemporary 
tactics or so adept at the old ways that the secret world 
around them still acknowledges their greatness.
Fabrizio Ulfila
Clan Ventrue has rarely tied itself too closely to the 
Church, finding it infested with Tremere, Toreador, Giovanni 
and Lasombra. Even those few who have made places for 
themselves within the mighty Catholic Empire have remained 
at the lower echelons, playing at jyhad from within holy walls 
at the local level. Fabrizio Ulfila, however, is the exception to 
this trend. He is quite a potent exception at that.
Some Kindred whisper that Ulfila holds each of the 
cardinals in debt, that he has the keys to a vast library of 
documents held as heretical by the Church, and that even 
the Pope himself stands accountable to this venerable 
Cainite. While these rumors are almost certainly exagger-
ated, Fabrizio has remained an active and powerful figure 
in the Catholic Church for centuries. As any Kindred 
associated with a mortal institution for centuries must, 
Ulfila remains hidden. When he seeks to act, he does so 
through telephone calls invoking favors, ghoul attendants 
or quiet influence leveled against capable Church officials. 
Over the centuries, Ulfila has been the impetus behind 
papal bulls, official declarations of dogma and even more 
dire events. Some hold him accountable for the Fourth 
Crusade, and still others for the Inquisition itself.
Whether these claims are true or not, Ulfila doubt-
less has the clout to make such things happen should 
he so wish. The Cainite’s connections seemingly have 
no limits. He is known to consort with a coven of 
Catholic mages, and he has alluded to boons owed him 
by Ambrogino Giovanni and a host of former justicars.
Detractors claim that Ulfila’s power has waned in 
the modern nights, and that the Church is no longer 
as relevant as it was during the nights of his meteoric 
ascent. Fabrizio simply smiles at these doubts. As the 
Final Nights approach, he has seen more and more of the 
desperate become devout, either hoping to hedge their 
bets or experiencing true epiphanies. While the world 
itself may indeed have become more secular than during 
the Long Night of the Dark Ages, it has also become far 
more populous, and the ranks of the faithful have swelled 
despite the fall of the ratio. It is upon the backs of those 
followers that the House of God is built — as well as the 
foundation of Ulfila’s influence.
Anushin-Rawan
As one of the greatest champions of the merits of 
Elysium, the Kindred Anushin-Rawan has garnered great 
status and support among Camarilla Kindred. In particular, 
many Toreador honor her in addition to her Ventrue 
clanmates. During the late 1950s, Anushin-Rawan 
combined the resources of several Ventrue partners in 
the interest of purchasing Yiaros, an island near Greece.
Establishing the island as her own personal domain 
and haven, Anushin-Rawan also declared the entire 
island an Elysium. Although she looks unfavorably upon 
Kindred using her haven as an asylum, she has recently 
opened the island to all Cainites of the Camarilla. In 
truth, Anushin-Rawan prefers the company of invited 
guests, with whom she spends nights in song and revelry. 
Although officially unpopulated, Yiaros has become home 
to a small community of psaras fishermen. From the ranks 
of these people, Anushin-Rawan populates the ranks of her 
manor’s servants, pleasure-slaves and professional vessels.
Almost three centuries before she purchased the island, 
Anushin-Rawan visited Yiaros and disseminated her blood 
through pirates taking shelter on the island. Thereafter, she 
provided the ghoul pirates with concubines, who promptly 
began populating the region. Unknown to the majority of 
the other Ventrue (let alone other Kindred), when Anushin-
Rawan bought the island, she had fed its secret inhabitants 
vitae so long that the descendants of the original pirates and 
concubines had become a revenant family. While Kindred 
scholars debate the probability of this claim being true, 
Anushin-Rawan knows its truth for certain, as Yiaros is home 
to a few lingering fae and their magical presence gradually 
twisted the islanders from mere ghouls to hereditary revenants.
To those who know her, Anushin-Rawan seems to 
have purely selfless motives in mind. True, she grows 
wealthy from international interests, but no one has ever 
breached the traditions of Elysium in her island domain, 
and she has never asked a guest for anything in return. 
(Although she has asked numerous odious coteries of 
Kindred to leave, at least one of which turned out later 
to be Sabbat.) Others, though, question her generosity, 
even if they have no idea about her revenants. What 
gain does it offer her besides status and fame?
True to her diplomatic origins — her release was a gala 
affair attended by almost one hundred Kindred luminaries 
of the time — Anushin-Rawan simply dismisses naysay-


Clanbook: Ventrue
100
ers as pessimists. She has gone to great lengths to create a 
pleasant haven for Kindred who wish to escape the ugliness 
of the Jyhad. Why would anyone wish to denigrate that?
Jan Pieterzoon, Childe of the Camarilla
Background: To Jan Pieterzoon, Gehenna and the 
Book of Nod are superstitious drivel belonging in the Dark 
Ages. Jan understands that Kindred are paranoid and 
petty — his grandsire was killed over a vendetta. Talk 
of Gehenna and ravenous Antediluvians only feeds this 
paranoia and results in factionalism, fear and paralysis. 
The Final Nights are here because foolish elders project 
their fears and read too much into coincidences and 
random chance. Jan is not blind, however. He knows that 
something is happening, but it is no more apocalyptic 
than simple change in Kindred social conventions. It 
happened before in the legends of the Kindred, as it 
did in Constantinople and during the Anarch Revolt. 
Instead of hiding from “Gehenna,” Jan believes that the 
Camarilla should embrace change, evolve and adapt to 
the new millennium. If it does not, Jan fears that the 
Camarilla will crumble and face a self-fulfilling Gehenna.
Jan has acquired no small amount of media influence 
to further his goal of eradicating Kindred superstition. The 
Ventrue is on a book-burning crusade. He wants the Inner 
Circle to punish all references to the Book of Nod since such 
references only feed the apocalyptic fear gripping Kindred 
society and make it harder for the Camarilla to remain 
dominant. He has gathered Cainite scholars and scientists 
to find “scientific” explanations for vampires — hoping 
that a secular explanation will quell fears of Gehenna.
Despite being immersed in Byzantine Kindred treachery 
since the very night of his Embrace, Jan Pieterzoon remains 
committed to the noblesse oblige that characterizes the most 
august of Ventrue. He truly believes that Ventrue dignitas 
includes guiding other wayward Kindred. He subscribes 
to the crumbling ethic of leadership over greed, counsel 
over dominance. Nevertheless, Pieterzoon isn’t naïve. 
He understands that most Kindred are too short-sighted 
to know what’s best for them. To this end, he’s willing to 
indulge in the race of Caine’s petty deceptions and grand 
jyhads as long as they accomplish the necessary end — the 
preservation of the Kindred and their secret ways.
Image: With a face framed by spiky blond hair and 
deep blue eyes, Jan Pieterzoon is an archetype of Scandi-
navian stock. He often colors his hair when traveling, as 
many Kindred find his look a little less than traditional 
and a bit shocking. Jan is a complete clotheshorse, ward-
robing himself in tailored suits of the finest subtle fabrics 
and accessories of high quality.
Roleplaying Hints: Your stake in the game is a great 
one, and you know full well that you are probably in over 
your head. Still, calm must prevail. If you let others know 
that you doubt the extent of your capabilities, they will 
bring you down like sharks drawn by the scent of blood. 
Your sire, Hardestadt, left you a tremendous legacy to 
satisfy, and you don’t fear failure for its own sake as you 
do his disappointment should you be unable to succeed 
at the tasks for which he chose you.
Clan: Ventrue
Sire: Hardestadt the Younger
Nature: Idealist
Demeanor: Director
Generation: 7th
Embrace: 1723
Apparent Age: late 20s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 6
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 5, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 4, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 2, 
Empathy 4, Expression 3, Grace 4, Intimidation 4, 
Leadership 4, Streetwise 1, Style 4, Subterfuge 6
Skills: Drive 2, Etiquette 4, Firearms 1, Melee 4, Per-
formance 4, Stealth 2, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics 4, Computer 2, Finance 5, In-
vestigation 3, Law 4, Linguistics 4, Politics 4, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Dominate 4, Fortitude 5, Obfus-
cate 2, Obtenebration 1, Potence 3, Presence 4
Backgrounds: Contacts 5, Herd 2, Influence 3, Mentor 5, 
Resources 5, Retainers 2, Status 4
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 7


™
Feeding Restriction
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-56504-255-7
WW2358  $14.95 U.S.
Noblesse Oblige
 
Capitalists, aristocrats, crusaders and criminals: The Ventrue 
have assumed the prestigious but demanding role of leaders. 
Forever in the line of fire, they have sacrificed their own comfort 
for the good of all Kindred. Or is this all an empty ruse that excuses 
their excess and greed? The proud history and black secrets of the 
clan reveal the truth.
Clanbook: Ventrue Includes:
• The history and practice of the Kindred’s most august clan
• Hints and tips for making each Ventrue a unique and influential
 
member of vampiric society
• New Discipline powers, scandals and luminaries of the Clan
 
of Leadership
Noblesse Oblige
 
Capitalists, aristocrats, crusaders and criminals: The Ventrue 
have assumed the prestigious but demanding role of leaders. 
Forever in the line of fire, they have sacrificed their own comfort 
for the good of all Kindred. Or is this all an empty ruse that excuses 
their excess and greed? The proud history and black secrets of the 
clan reveal the truth.
Clanbook: Ventrue Includes:
• The history and practice of the Kindred’s most august clan
• Hints and tips for making each Ventrue a unique and influential
 
member of vampiric society
• New Discipline powers, scandals and luminaries of the Clan
 
of Leadership
