TM


Contents
1
™
By Clayton Oliver
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Assamite
2
Credits
Written by: Clayton Oliver
Additional Material on the Treaty of Tyre: Graeme Davis
Additional Mind’s Eye Theatre Systems: Deird’re Brooks
Developed by: Justin Achilli
Editor: James Stewart
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten
Interior Art: Mike Danza, Michael Gaydos, Leif Jones, 
Andy Trabbold, Christopher Shy
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten
Special Thanks,  
DragonCon Edition
Tim “WoD Crackhouse” Avers, for rolling with the punches 
and finding party space about a week before the show.
Richard “Who’s Your Daddy?” Thomas, for becoming a par-
ent instead of weathering the Gandalf Parade.
Mike “Time To Go Home, Sir” Chaney, for being arrested 
as little as possible.
Mike “You Had Better Go Home, Too, Sir” Tinney, for hav-
ing more arrests than Chaney.
Conrad “Con Humper” Hubbard, for gleaning dates in the 
dealer’s room.
Charles “Veteran Con Humper” Bailey, for probably doing 
the same thing even though rumors remain unsubstantiated 
at this time.
Dean “Point of Contact” Burnham, for playing switchboard 
operator on the convention floor.
Kraig “Practically Naked Again” Blackwelder, for his second 
year of dauntless dance-floor expression.
Chad “Dirty Old Chow” Brown, for being ditched, ha ha. 
Oh, and for helping “acquire” the amps and speakers.
Brian “Steak-and-Rumtastic” Glass, for opening the whole 
absurd affair with the drunkest birthday ever and my still-
drunkest booth shift ever.
Eeeeeew
The swampy booze-slick behind the bar that saturated the 
carpet and still reeks to high heaven.
© 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher 
is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced 
for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the 
Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, 
World of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the 
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, 
Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the 
Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Clanbook 
Assamite, Libellus Sanguinus 3, Guide to the Camarilla and 
Guide to the Sabbat are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and 
text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product in 
these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright 
concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and 
themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction 
and intended for entertainment purposes only. This book 
contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Contents
Introduction: From the Treaty of Tyre	
4
Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot	
10
Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone	
24
Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim	
70
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Assamite


From the Treaty of Tyre
In the Year of Our Lord, 1496…
Therefore,
Whereas
we, the Elders and Kindred of the Clans Ventrue, Tremere, Toreador, Nosferatu, 
Gangrel, Brujah and Malkavian, gathered together in Brotherhood and Mutual 
Faith and hereinafter known as the Camarilla, being the True and only Rightful 
Heirs of the Estate of Caine, do desire an end to the Unlawful and Diableristic 
Practices of the Rebels hereinafter known as the Clan Assamite;
And whereas
 the said Clan Assamite does desire that the said Camarilla shall hold back its 
Hand from the Full and Ultimate Extinction of the Clan Assamite:
 
be it agreed between all Parties signed and witnessed hereunto that the follow-
ing Articles shall stand as binding between all the Parties and their Progeny 
and Servitors, from this date perpetually...
...The Clan Assamite shall refrain from taking the Blood of other Kindred, 
and as surety of this provision shall submit themselves to a ritual to be ad-
ministered by the Elders of the Clan Tremere, whereby Kindred Blood shall be 
made poisonous to them...
...The Clan Assamite shall remain peacefully in the territory ceded to them 
by the Camarilla, which they have historically claimed as their own. They shall 
seek no expansion of this territory, nor shall they permit any unrest of mortals 
within their territory to spread to other areas. They shall not travel, either singly 
or in groups, outside this territory, nor shall they have Retainers or Servitors 
of any kind travel outside this territory on their behalf. The Princes of the 
Camarilla have the perpetual right to call a Blood Hunt against any Assamite 
or Assamites within their fiefs, and need give no other reason for such a Blood 
Hunt beyond membership of the Assamite bloodline...
...The defenses of the castle of Alamut shall be dismantled to the point where 
the castle can no longer withstand a siege or other attack by the forces of the 
Camarilla. The Clan Assamite shall permit observers from the Camarilla to 
verify compliance with this provision. Further, any re-fortification of Alamut, 
or any attempt to establish a fortification elsewhere, shall be in breach of this 
treaty, and a worldwide Blood Hunt may be called against those committing 
the breach...
...The Camarilla undertakes to cease all action against the Clan Assamite, and 
not to violate the borderi2of its agreed territory without the sanction of a full 
Convocation of the Camarilla. The Clans of the Camarilla agree among themselves 
that they shall no longer seek to employ members of the Clan Assamite as hired 
assassins, and that those violating this provision shall forfeit the protection of 
their Clans and may be subject to a Blood Hunt. The Clan Assamite undertakes 
to cease any and all activity of its members as assassins for hire...


Clanbook: Assamite
6


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
7
Chapter One: 
How Quickly  
We Forgot
The truth shall set you free.
— motto of the United States’ Central Intelligence Agency
By way of deception, thou shalt do war.
— motto of Israel’s Institute for Intelligence and Special Tasks (Mossad)
From the Chronicle of the Heartsblood, the second 
chapter of the Book of the Final Nights; appearing almost 
identically in the Parables of Blood.
… and so it came to pass that in those nights the 
House of Haqim was broken by a great war. The hiss 
of whispered lies and the clamor of battle filled the 
halls of the Mountain. Brother set upon brother, and 
the Children washed their spears in the Heartsblood, 
and the foremost casualty of those battles was Truth.
Or perhaps not.
I set down this history of the Children of Haqim at the 
request of al-Ashrad, former Amr and now Eldest-in-Exile. 
Although my hands are more familiar with blade and blood 
than with pen and ink, I attempt to render Truth as best I 
am able. Perhaps in this small service I may atone for my 
shortcomings of faith and loyalty.
This work, I am informed, is the first chronicle of the 
Children of Haqim to be freely released from the chambers 
of Alamut in more than a millennium. It may be expected, 
then, to contradict conventional wisdom regarding the 
Children, particularly as the Camarilla holds it. It is to that 
august body (which the Eldest-in-Exile informs me will be 
my most likely audience) and the rest of Caine’s inheritors 
that I say this:
Everything you know about us is a lie.
It was an easy one to believe, was it not? Hundreds, 
even thousands of bloodthirsty — literally — Arab assas-
sins. Contract killers slaying vampires for the greater glory of 
Caine and Haqim, or “Assam” as you may mispronounce 
his name. Yes, the rest of the Cainite world believed it — 
clung to it, even, as the safest, simplest explanation of actions 
whose true motives their grandsires had forgotten. It was 
a good lie. It kept the Children safe for hundreds of years 
while they tried to find themselves again.
The problem with telling a good lie is that the liar may 
become so caught up in it that she loses sight of the truth, 
and she starts to believe the lie herself. The Children hid 
their history so well that they took their own deception as 
reality. In doing so, they forgot the soul of what they were 
made to be.
No longer.
We began in a manner similar to this.…


Clanbook: Assamite
8
In the early nights of the First City, there was a man. In his mortal days, he was a great warrior. Had there 
been enough warriors in those times for armies to exist, he might have been a great general, but he contented himself 
with being one of the most talented war-party leaders his homeland had ever seen. In time, however, his desire for 
bloodshed faded, as it usually does in warriors who have actually seen war. He dedicated himself to scholarship, 
and excelled at it, learning to write and to speak the language of the dead. Eventually, his renown spread far 
enough to attract the attention of one Caine’s children, who decided to preserve the stone of his soul for eternity.
The warrior-turned-scholar wandered for a time under the new veil of night — perhaps a month, perhaps 
centuries. Eventually, he sought the company of his own kind and made his haven in the Second City, though he 
never truly settled there. Over the years, he gave the Blood to a handful of craftsmen and academicians whose 
skill and knowledge he admired, and his brood quietly prospered.
When his brothers and sister and cousins quarreled, this Cainite always remained neutral. He had seen war’s 
face, and he knew the folly of spilling blood for the sake of pride. No matter who offered him alliance, his response 
was always the same: “Not this night.”
This is not to say the Cainite had no confidants among his contemporaries. He nurtured the artisans of the 
Second City alongside his sister, the one who would be known as the mother of the Clan of the Blossom. He debated 
the nature of life and the mysteries of death with his cousin, who would come to know death in a more intimate 
manners than any of them could imagine in those nights. He spoke of philosophy with the brothers who would 
be known as the Serpent and the Sage. And some nights, when the wanderer whose children would bear the face 
of the Beast turned away from the walls of the Second City and loped into the wastelands, this Cainite ran at 
her side. It was this last of his cousins who named him the Hunter in a private jest — for of all the prey that 
the varied ancients sought, this childe’s was the most elusive of all: Truth.
One night, the Hunter’s siblings came to his house to beg a service of him. This filled the Hunter’s heart with 
despair and weariness, for they had never before sought him out in unison, and he knew that no good could come of 
it. Nevertheless, because they were his brothers and sisters and cousins, he bade them enter and made them welcome.
With little preamble, they began their plea to him. “We have noticed,” said the Blossom, “that some of our 
children have overstepped their bounds. They run wild among the mortals. Madness is in their eyes, and chaos 
and misery in their wake.”
The Hunter nodded sadly. “I have noticed this too, and it pains me that my nieces and nephews act in such a 
fashion, spreading terror among the children of Seth and proclaiming themselves gods. But what can I and mine 
do about such savagery?”
“This city has need of a voice without bias,” said the Seer. “We would ask you to bring us such a voice. Create 
a second family, so that they may be our judges, and you may sit at their head and keep order among us all.”
“But why do you ask me to do such a thing?” asked the Hunter. “While it is true that I was a warrior in my 
youth, I have forsaken the spear for the scroll, and I no longer wish to shed more blood than I must to survive.”
“We ask you to take this responsibility,” answered the Sculptor of Souls, “because you do not wish it. Therefore, 
you will not abuse the power that it brings. We can trust none of ourselves, nor our own children. But you have 
always remained the aloof one among us, favoring none over another, and we believe you will continue to do so. 
And we know you will do this because it is needful.”
So the Hunter — the Judge — agreed. He went forth and gathered a second family, a family of other judges. 
And over the centuries, the burden of responsibility wore heavily upon him.
Even in his own house, he could find no peace. Much as he tried to bring agreement between his two families, 
he could not. His first family, the gentle artisans and wise scholars, viewed the judges as headstrong, arrogant 
upstarts. The judges, for their part, saw the first family as effete cowards. The Hunter disappeared for weeks 
on end, leaving his house in the care of a different one of his children each time. As the decades went by, these 
absences grew longer and the time he spent in the Second City grew shorter.
The final straw, as it were, came one night in the middle of a petty dispute, the details of which have been 
lost to history. No one agrees even upon the disputants of the issue. The only facts that all accounts concur on are 
these: After centuries of arguments, the Hunter’s patience finally broke. One of his childer came to him with an 
argument that he considered so petty, so pointless, that it became the focal point for all his anger with his own 
lineage. He lost his temper with both his families and stormed out of his house, never to be seen again.
And the final provocation, by chance, came from a member of the first family — the scholars.
So the judges took this final sign of disfavor as a mandate that they were to take up leadership of the house.
And so it was. And so it has been ever since.
Ever since Haqim left us.


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
9
I have translated that story from the original, which is 
inscribed on a clay tablet that the Eldest-in-Exile has gener-
ously lent me for this project. He informs me that it was 
inscribed some two centuries before the birth of the Christian 
Martyr-God. While it should not be taken in a completely 
literal sense — the time scale, for instance, seems vastly 
incorrect — the core narrative is factual. As it suggests, the 
Children of Haqim were not always the band of lusty killers 
that most observers now think we are. Ours is a story of a 
fall to rival that of [Brujah], a lie greater than that told by 
Mekhet, and a leader with a vision to rival that of Saulot. 
Or so the historians of Alamut would have us believe.
Over the centuries, I have been introduced to varying 
accounts of our origins. For the sake of simplicity, I have 
attempted to compile a prehistory that adheres most closely 
to that with which my intended audience is familiar. Other 
possibilities will receive separate examination out of academic 
interest....
The First Nights
We know our clan founder better than many clans 
know theirs, both from the memories of those who met 
him and through his own writings. Haqim was not his 
real name, for he knew the power inherent in such 
things, but it was the moniker he chose for himself 
after he received the Blood, and it is the same name 
by which we still refer to him tonight.
In his mortal life, Haqim was a warrior and a hunter, 
a member of one of the myriad nomadic tribes that fol-
lowed the migrations of animal herds across the Fertile 
Crescent and into Asia and Northern Africa. He was 
highly skilled, but, by his own admission, he was far 
from the best among his peers, and he believed that his 
sire chose to Embrace him more for his strength of will 
than for any quality of skill or appearance. Accounts 
differ as to the identity of the second-generation Cainite 
who sired Haqim, but several records refer to Arikel, 
the presumed founder of the Toreador line, as Haqim’s 
“sister,” which would make En’esh, or Enoch, the most 
likely candidate.
Until the destruction of the First City, Haqim served 
as one of its most steadfast defenders. Although Caine’s 
children were mighty individually, the wealth of the 
city of Enoch was such that almost all of its neighbors 
made an attempt, at one time or another, to raid its 
walls. In some cases, this was from greed; more often, it 
was out of desperation to end the city’s predation of the 
surrounding areas. All too often, Haqim and his siblings 
bathed their tongues and their spears in the blood of 
mortals whose only offense was hunger.
The Second City
After the destruction of the First City, Haqim wan-
dered for some time. His later writings suggest that he 
had already grown weary of his undying condition and 
the state of affairs that preceded Enoch’s fall. Haqim 
never stated outright that he knew of his siblings’ plans 
to slay their sires, but he strongly implied that he was 
aware of the possibility and wanted no part of it. Instead, 
he chose to distance himself from the conflict. Though 
he knew he could not avoid it entirely, he insulated 
himself from it whenever possible.
Some time during his wandering, Haqim created 
his first childe. This individual’s name is lost to history, 
but the Parables of Blood state that he was a scribe and 
a primitive astronomer whom the Ancestor saved from 
being stoned for heresy. This set the trend for many of 
Haqim’s later Embraces: innovators and intellectuals 
whose vision equaled their knowledge of their chosen 
crafts.
By the time Haqim learned of the founding of the 
Second City, its walls had already been in place for 
a century or more. He quietly observed his siblings’ 
progress for decades before deciding to join them. One 
night, he simply appeared at the gates of the city with a 
dozen followers and politely requested entry. His brother 
Malkav was the first to welcome him, giving Haqim 
a home before the rest of the Third Generation was 
aware of the newcomer’s arrival. After such a display 
of hospitality, the other Antediluvians were forced to 
accept Haqim in order to save face.
The seeds of the War of Ages were sown well be-
fore Haqim established residence in the Second City. 
Knowing that his childer would become near-defenseless 
pawns in any such conflict, he quickly made a statement 
of neutrality. While this pleased none of his siblings, all 
of whom had hoped to recruit him as an ally or a dupe, 
it also ensured that Haqim and his Children were less 
likely to incite the ire of a third-generation Cainite for 
any given action. This led them into a sort of political 
This neutrality characterized Haqim’s relations with 
Caine throughout their loose association. I find consider-
able interest in the fact that his Children are the only 
Great Clan (I do not count the Tremere, nor the Giovanni, 
as Great Clans) that does not possess a blood-borne dis-
ability that can be traced to a curse or condemnation from 
Caine. Perhaps our collective father never incurred his 
own grandsire’s wrath.
Then again, perhaps Caine was just more subtly 
displeased with Haqim than he was with the Nosferatu 
progenitor. The Children have fallen quite suitably.


Clanbook: Assamite
10
equilibrium where they were largely ignored and left 
free to pursue their individual crafts and studies.
Justice
Neutrality is, in and of itself, a statement of politi-
cal belief, at least in the Jyhad. As the Cainites of the 
Fourth and Fifth Generations of the Second City grew 
increasingly heady with their godlike power, their con-
flicts became less subtle than those of their sires, and the 
city’s mortals were all too often caught in the middle of 
these disputes. The Third Generation attempted to rein 
in their children, as they were justifiably concerned about 
attracting the attention of Caine, but widespread peace 
was next to impossible due to the lack of trust between 
the Antediluvians. Only one among their number had 
earned their distrust to an equal extent: the one who 
had set himself apart from their squabbles.
The Antediluvians reached a rough consensus 
and confronted Haqim in his own haven one night. 
Their proposal was simple: None of them trusted any 
of the others enough to allow that individual to have 
any sort of power over them. However, if their childer 
were allowed to continue on their present course, 
Caine’s wrath would certainly come down on the city 
as a whole. Thus, some sort of authority must evolve 
in the Second City that could protect the Children of 
Seth — the mortals — from the excesses of any given 
vampire without such actions being seen as a move in 
the nascent Jyhad. Haqim had set himself apart; thus, 
he and his brood were the best of a set of bad choices.
Haqim protested his siblings’ request, as they knew 
he would. Eventually, it was Saulot who brought forth 
the one argument that would convince his cousin. The 
service Haqim was being asked to render was not for the 
Cainites of the Second City but for the mortals. Haqim 
relented. The next night, he left the city and vanished 
for a year. When he returned, he brought with him a 
dozen more followers, the first of the Second City’s judges.
The judges grew to prominence in the Second City 
over the following decades. Under Haqim’s leadership, 
they quashed the first stirrings of the War of Ages and 
restored order to a land whose mortal inhabitants 
had come to fear their rulers. For a time, it seemed 
that the Second City knew peace. However, threats 
both internal and external had merely learned to hide 
themselves better.


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
11
The Conflicts With  
the Adversary
Approximately two centuries after Haqim estab-
lished the judges, a cult of demon-venerating vampires 
appeared on the borders of the territory claimed by the 
Second City. Several decades of strikes and counter-
strikes gradually mounted toward outright war between 
the mortal attachés of the two powers. Haqim, still 
charged with keeping order within the city, noted a 
gradual increase in certain blasphemous acts that could 
only be attributed to these wicked Cainites or their sym-
pathizers within the various vampiric families. However, 
the infernalists used a form of blood magic that Haqim’s 
judges had little means of countering. Although Saulot 
claimed his holy warriors were capable of piercing and 
nullifying such demonic sorcery, Haqim had little trust 
left for the cousin who had all but forced him into the 
position of law-keeper.
Haqim left the city again. When he returned, this 
time after three years, he had only three followers — but 
all three were once mortal wizards who had weathered 
the curse of unlife. These sorcerers were the first publicly 
acknowledged blood magicians of the Second City. Serv-
ing alongside the judges yet studying with the scholars, 
they seemed to be the middle ground between Haqim’s 
two sets of Children.
The important distinction here lies in the phrase 
“publicly acknowledged.”
The need for strength forced Haqim’s sorcerers to 
expand their ranks quickly. The skills of the initial trio 
revealed the extent of infernal influence within the 
Second City, and the demon-worshippers and their al-
lies reacted like cornered wolves. A series of skirmishes 
decimated the judges and left two of the three sorcerers 
as dust in the streets. The survivor became an unwilling 
and uncomfortable liaison between the judges and the 
Salubri warriors until he could sire and train more blood 
magicians. During the next decade, Haqim brought a 
score more mortal wizards into the night, as well as 
undertaking several personal projects, one of which 
would not come to light for centuries.
The Children of Haqim and the Salubri slowly 
scourged the demon tribes, known as the Baali, from 
the Second City, using both patient investigation and 
ruthlessly overwhelming force. Within a century, the 
last known Baali sympathizer had been fed to the sacred 
purifying fires. The sorcerers stood down from their 
hunting and began to fully explore the power of Cainite 
vitae as the heart of their arts, each one adapting his 
own mortal techniques to his new condition. A few 
continued to work with the judges, but most dedicated 
themselves to research.
It was during this time that the three lines of Haqim 
became distinctly separate. This divergence continues to the 
present night. Initially, the choice belonged to Haqim as to a 
given childe’s or grandchilde’s future as much as any other 
factor. Those who showed intellectual promise, he encouraged 
to join his scholarly offspring. Those of a more martial bent 
received subtle (or not so subtle) guidance toward association 
with the judges. The sorcerers were a breed apart, even then, 
but were still indisputably childer of Haqim as well. The 
castes’ individual Discipline affinities developed during this 
time, though they were almost certainly different from those 
that exist in the modern nights. Haqim most likely instructed 
all of his childer in the art now known as Quietus, which 
has undergone several radical shifts in purpose and method 
during its history. The art of Auspex once saw much more 
common practice among the clan than it does now, perhaps 
even as a universal talent.
Early records and recollections do indicate that some 
of the “caste weaknesses,” as the younger generations term 
them, arose during this time as well. The most likely ex-
planation for the three lines’ divergent liabilities, barring 
the traditional “Caine cursed us” of which some other clans 
seem so fond, is that they stem from Haqim himself. He 
was an individual of immense will and focus, even when 
compared to those among his contemporaries with whom I 
am acquainted. If Haqim had a fatal flaw, it was mono-
mania. All too often, he focused on one passion or duty to 
the exclusion of all else. This defining trait carried itself 
through the Blood, marking his first line with that aspect 
of his personality.
That first brood eventually became the vizier caste. 
In the beginning, their weakness barely merited notice. 
Certainly, it was no more debilitating than those of other 
Cainites were. However, once Haqim’s first childer had seen 
a dozen mortal lifetimes come and go, their single-minded 
pursuit of their own particular crafts and studies ceased 
to become routines and became imperatives. Indeed, some 
have supposedly destroyed themselves when denied access 
to the tools of their assorted trades. While few modern 
viziers descend to those depths of madness, all fixate on 
the tasks by which they define their unlives. Perhaps this 
serves them as some sort of moral touchstone — I have 
seen comparatively few viziers descend into frenzy, and 
no few of those were unlearned and directionless before 
their Embraces.
The judges, by comparison, embodied Haqim’s young 
mortal days — in truth, they were always predisposed to 
violence to some degree or another, even before their province 
shifted from justice to conflict. Second City justice was, 


Clanbook: Assamite
12
to borrow a phrase from the Christians, biblical. Violent 
mutilation was common, as was outright destruction, most 
often by the rising sun. Other punishments involved the 
ritual taking of a portion of the offender’s blood as a 
reminder that his continued existence was only at the 
sufferance of his elders — in whose names, at least in 
theory, the judges acted. One fragmentary writing indicates 
that the first act of diablerie was the result of a judge’s 
lapse of control while administering such a punishment 
to a childe of Arikel named Amarantha.
Regardless of whether that account is accurate, the 
warriors struggled with a certain thirst for Cainite vitae 
from their earliest nights — though it did not reach its 
present strength until the Long Night, and not without 
external assistance. However, the warriors have always 
been falsely marked as diablerists. The eldest judges can 
recall nights when a newly Embraced warrior’s soul was 
almost entirely black, with only the faintest traces of his 
heart’s stirrings visible, and his skin darkened to match 
within a matter of years. Some say that Haqim himself 
was responsible for visibly marking the judges in this 
fashion as a means by which all residents of the Second 
City could easily identify one of their number (though 
this does not explain why members of the other castes 
also darken with age).
The sorcerers are a matter unto themselves. In some 
ways, they were the middle ground between the judges and 
the viziers. For every one who chose to walk the path of 
blade and flame, another devoted himself to peaceful stud-
ies. Yet they shared the characteristics of neither “parent” 
group. Rather, they developed their own distinct “appear-
ance,” standing out so strongly to the mystically inclined 
eye that all but the most powerful magics of concealment 
had no use to them and all could identify them as blood 
magicians with but a glance. This, too, may have been 
Haqim’s doing, for in the nights of the Second City the 
memory of the Baali (and of other blood wizards who bent 
their talents for ill) made many Cainites suspicious. By 
marking “his” sorcerers so distinctly that none could doubt 
what they were, and by stunting their ability to conceal 
their presence, Haqim would have ensured that all could 
know an individual to be of his brood and thus know that 
sorcerer’s agenda. On the other hand, this manifestation 
may have been spontaneous, brought on by the sheer power 
of the sorcerers’ early experimentation, much as a forge 
glows with waste heat long after the smith banks the fires.
Peace
For nearly half a millennium, the Second City 
enjoyed as much of a golden age as was possible for 
such a concentration of powerful, self-righteous beings. 
Members of the Fourth and Fifth Generations began to 
leave during this time, establishing their own domains 
across the region. Most of the Children of Haqim chose 
to stay within the confines of the Second City: the 
judges to fulfil their duty, and the scholars to remain 
close to their mentor.
Haqim took to wandering again, often leaving for up 
to a decade to pursue his own agendas. In his absence, the 
eldest of his childer who was in the city usually assumed 
leadership of the households. This gradually became a 
semiformal honor and position, and the head of Haqim’s 
estate came to be called the Eldest. Haqim himself gave 
his tacit acceptance by saying nothing against it.
The Second Baali Conflict
And then, without warning, a border city died. A 
few battered survivors escaped the pyre of Charizel and 
returned to the Second City with news of their Kindred 
lord’s destruction. They told harrowing tales of pillars 
of flame, of spears of sunlight that struck down Cainites 
as they walked in the streets at midnight, of pits that 
opened in the earth to swallow temples and homes — 
and of the architects of this horror.
They called themselves Baali.
The reaction among the Antediluvians was largely 
one of disbelief and suspicion. Had Saulot’s warriors and 
Haqim’s judges not crushed the infernalists centuries ago, 
broken their power and sent their scattered survivors 
howling into the night? Was the honey-voiced satan not 
sent, broken, into the sea? Surely this was some treach-
ery, another stroke in the Jyhad. Accusations flew, each 
aggrieved party accusing his rivals of engineering the 
city’s destruction and planting tales of Baali magicians 
and demon lords to awaken the old fears.
Quietly, Haqim and Saulot sheltered the forgotten 
mortal survivors of the massacre and listened. Gradu-
ally, they became convinced that Charizel had been 
a sacrifice, the centerpiece of a ritual whose ultimate 
objective remained undetermined. Haqim favored 
further investigation; Saulot demanded action. Within 
a fortnight, the mightiest of the Salubri warriors rode 
forth, bent on stamping out the infestation before it 
could spread.
The story of their fate is well recorded and need 
not be dwelt upon in this account.
Haqim’s broods prepared for battle as best they were 
able, gathering what allies they had among the other 
Cainites and taking the then-unprecedented step of 
arming their ghouls with ensorcelled weapons. Rather 
than attempt to defend the walls of the Second City 
itself, they mustered their forces in the ruins of a village 
some four nights’ travel away from the walls, along the 
most likely route of approach for the Baali.


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
13
“Most likely,” in this case, was a poor estimation. 
The judges and sorcerers were in the process of fortify-
ing the place they had chosen for their stand when a 
ghoul messenger arrived, near death from exhaustion 
and a dozen wounds. He carried word that the Second 
City was under assault from the opposite direction. 
The Baali, it seemed, paid little heed to conventional 
methods of travel when they had the wings of demons 
to speed them on their way.
The Eldest, a judge named Mancheaka, led the 
Children and their allies and servants on a rapid overland 
march, determined to reinforce the City before it fell. 
Near dawn, as the column prepared to take shelter from 
the sun in a network of caverns, their outriders were 
obliterated by a storm of spears and flame. The main 
body of the force came under attack moments later. 
Mancheaka and her brood met Final Death holding 
off the attackers, but their actions bought the survivors 
time to take shelter in the caves.
As the remaining judges and their comrades 
regrouped in the sheltering darkness, they began to 
assemble what little knowledge they had about their 
situation. Several had glimpsed familiar faces among 
the attackers, members of the broods of Saulot, Ventrue 
and Lasombra who had been thought to be close allies of 
the Children. Mancheaka’s forces, it seemed, had been 
operating under false information for weeks — Baali 
sympathizers had deftly tricked the judges into stripping 
away many of the city’s most potent defenders.
The day and night that followed were nearly the end 
of the judges and sorcerers. The Baali and their demon 
lackeys hounded the Children of Haqim through the 
caverns. To their credit, the judges’ spears took many 
of their enemies, and the arts of the sorcerers bound 
and slew with desperate strength, but the weight of 
numbers and the momentum of the attack lay with 
the Baali.
Near dawn of the second night, the last remaining 
sorcerers gathered in the most defensible of the caverns. 
As they prepared their wards for the coming assault, 
the stone beneath their feet began to tremble. A fero-
cious screaming arose, as if the Baali had mustered the 
very legions of the infernal to sweep the Children of 
Haqim from the world. The judges braced their spears; 
the sorcerers gathered their energies.
Then blood began to flow into the cavern. Only a 
trickle at first, a few drops seeping down through the 


Clanbook: Assamite
14
Diaspora
The Baali infested the Second City thrice more over 
the course of the conflict, though never with as much 
strength as they had in those first desperate nights. By 
the time the threat was contained to Haqim and Saulot’s 
satisfaction, the lands around the city were barren and 
blackened from Baali curses, sorcerous flame and the 
marching feet of the world’s first armies. Gradually, the 
heirs of Caine abandoned their nest, striking out for the 
fabled lands that lay beyond the borders.
Haqim had grown heart-weary during the wars. He 
rarely took direct action, though circumstances forced 
him to take the field several times. Much of his time 
was spent nurturing the scholars and training the judges. 
The sorcerers he left to the prodigy ur-Shulgi and a 
necromancer whose name is lost to history.
While the battles against the Baali unfolded, the 
judges found themselves performing their original duties 
less and less. The childer of Caine had little call for the 
pursuit of one of their number who fed improperly when 
a village had just been massacred as a blood sacrifice and 
scarcely a need to find a hidden infernalist when a dozen 
were battering down the gates. Haqim taught his clan 
the ways of battle reluctantly, for he had not enjoyed the 
oldest craft since early in his sunlit life, but he couldn’t 
sacrifice his Children through his 
own failure to prepare them. 
Gradually, the judges 
became warriors, 
in fact if not in 
name.
tunnels, gradually becoming a steady flow that left the 
surviving Children ankle-deep in cooling crimson.
Then footfalls: light, almost noiseless, slow, as if 
those of a child tentatively making its way down the 
steep passages.
Then a tiny figure, blackened and charred, its eyes 
burned from its skull, emerged into the flickering light 
of the single torch that a ghoul had managed to keep 
burning. “Haqim sends me,” it whispered, “I am ur-
Shulgi. And I am of the Blood.”
Over the next century, the Children of Haqim were 
at the forefront of the wars against the infernalists, push-
ing them back to their pits and sealing the mouths of 
hell. The Baali never fully recovered from their massacre 
in the caverns — they would not be a significant threat 
for millennia. The Children rebuilt slowly, carefully, as 
Haqim watched from afar and allowed his heirs to craft 
their own legacy.
The traditional accounts of the battles against the Baali 
seem to be grossly exaggerated, depicting epic conflicts on 
a scale that the mortal population of the time, let alone 
the Cainite population, simply could not have supported. 
However, enough similar stories have been passed down 
to imply that there is some degree of truth to them. The 
most common version among the Children is the one given 
here. Note the constant emphasis on the 
noble sacrifices made by Haqim’s 
brood, establishing them as 
the long-suffering saviors 
of the other Cainites. 
No doubt each clan 
has its own such 
tragedies.


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
15
As the broods of the other Ancients abandoned 
the Second City, Haqim grew disheartened with his 
duty. He had accepted the responsibility of administer-
ing justice to his peers and their descendants, but they 
seemed no longer willing to accept his performance of 
the task that they had set for him. Some ignored him. 
Some openly rejected him. Most gradually abandoned 
the hollow shell of the city to which he and his Chil-
dren had twice served as shields and spears. He quietly 
consulted with his closest advisors then vanished into 
the wilderness for a year.
When the Ancestor returned, he gathered his 
Children and spoke to them. His words, though marred 
through repeated translations, are still with us tonight, 
and have formed the basis for many of our line’s acts 
across the centuries:
Just as the Children of Night acknowledge the duty of 
a leader to lead, they also acknowledge the duty of his fol-
lowers to accept his rule. Just as the Children of the Beast 
acknowledge the need for a hunter to hunt, so too do they 
acknowledge the duty of the prey to be hunted. Yet our 
cousins reject their duty to submit to our justice, though 
they themselves cried out for us to render justice unto them.
Some among them have said that our time is past, that 
there is no further need for us, that the city is dead and all 
would do well to abandon it before its final collapse. A 
grain of truth grows in this — we have tended to the threats 
without at the expense of vigilance within. But the fault 
is not our own, in large part, for that lies with those who 
would play their games of scepter, sword and lily with the 
mortals as their tokens. Have we further need for judgement 
simply because our kind has outgrown a single city. There 
will be other cities.
The crisis that confronts us tonight is one of duty. We 
know ours; our cousins made it plain in nights long past. 
And though they may scorn us, our charter of justice has 
never been revoked. We, then, must seek new ways in which 
to administer it, as the methods that we have pursued in the 
past are no longer the best tools for that trade.
They tell us that the city is dying. We shall leave it to 
its death throes, then. We will go forth into the war-torn 
lands, the deserts, the mountains, the harsh, barren places 
that no others would claim as their domain. There, we will 
preserve the memory of these nights against the ravages of 
time. We will watch, and we will study, and we will wait. 
And when the need for our justice once again becomes so 
great that we cannot stand idly by and watch our cousins’ 
acts, we will come forth, and memory will be our spear.
The Ancestor’s disdain for the political machinations 
of the Jyhad remains strong in the clan even tonight. As a 
whole, the Children of Haqim hold themselves apart from 
the political squabbles of other Cainites. This is due in 
part to geography, at least before the advent of mechanized 
transportation, but mainly to a subtle sense of superiority. 
The Children like to feel that they have no need to resort 
to politics to achieve their aims. This is not to say that 
no member of the line is incapable of subtlety — indeed, 
many viziers have achieved great success in the political 
arena — but rather that the clan culture, such as it is, 
is predisposed toward more direct solutions.
Of course, this political isolation has also had its 
drawbacks. Absence from the intrigues of the Damned 
means lack of enemies, but also of allies. Perhaps, had we 
been more in touch with our European brethren, we would 
not have been at odds with them during the Long Night, 
and we would never have had isolation imposed on us by 
the Tremere. Immortal memories breed immortal grudges, 
and offenses committed during the Anarch Revolt are still 
fresh for some of those with whom we seek sanctuary. 
Furthermore, there is the matter of political experience. 
We are new to the halls of power into which we seek to 
insinuate ourselves, and there is much we have yet to 
learn about the Camarilla and the Sabbat alike.
Departure
Briefly thereafter, the Children of Haqim van-
ished from the Second City forever. A tiny handful 
of dissenters broke from the main body of the clan, 
rejecting Haqim’s proclamation of isolation in favor 
of remaining in contact with the greater body of the 
Cainite population, such as it was. Most of these were 
scholars and artisans who felt that a hermit’s existence 
would be unduly confining to their works. Among their 
more loyal brethren, these individuals became known 
as “dispossessed” for their rejection of their heritage. 
Haqim himself made no move to stop them, perhaps 
believing that enforcing his will would create more 
problems than it solved.
All accounts of the clan’s exodus from the Second 
City speak of the journey as a nigh-unendurable trial. 
Haqim left the city in the height of summer, and the 
need for shelter from the sun meant that nearly a third 
of each night was spent breaking down and re-erecting 
camp. Many Children went to their Final Deaths as 
a result of sunlight piercing improperly light-proofed 
tents. The journey proved no less harsh for the mortal 
servants who followed Haqim into self-imposed exile, 
for the journey led through scorched and lifeless lands 
that had borne the brunt of the Baali conflicts. Water 
was difficult to come by, food was even more scarce, and 
vitae was all but unobtainable outside the caravan itself. 
By the time the travelers reached the foothills of the 
mountains that were Haqim’s destination, fewer than 
50 Children and perhaps eight score mortal servants 


Clanbook: Assamite
16
remained, and most of the latter’s livestock had been 
slaughtered for sustenance.
The ascent into the mountains was equally danger-
ous, but for different reasons. The mortals of the region 
had never fallen under the sovereignty of the Second 
City, but they had heard stories from refugees of the 
Baali clashes. They had no particular desire to accept 
masters other than themselves. Moreover, they had 
encountered several broken survivors of the Baali, and 
they knew how to fight the unliving. 
The Eagle’s Nest
The following account of Alamut’s founding is 
generally taken as literal truth. However, it raises 
several questions, not the least of which pertains to 
the apparent stone-shaping powers displayed by the 
Ancestor. Such talent is unknown among the Cainites 
— except among one lesser bloodline, which did not 
come into existence until seven or eight millennia 
after these events.
It is my personal belief that the “literally accepted” 
account is incorrect. My research indicates, albeit incon-
clusively, that Haqim did not create Alamut — he merely 
discovered it, perhaps by breaking an existing magical 
concealment of some sort. However, I should emphasize 
that this is strictly an educated guess.
As Haqim’s mortal and Cainite followers moved deeper 
into the mountains, their supply situation became progres-
sively more desperate. Haqim was well aware that those who 
remained were loyal unto (or, in some cases, past) death, 
but loyalty was no substitute for sustenance and shelter. The 
travelers had no option but to keep moving — the territory 
through which they passed was too infertile to support any 
sort of settlement.
On the night of the winter solstice, Haqim halted the 
exodus shortly after moonrise. He spoke one word: “Here.” 
He thrust his spear into the stone at his feet. The mountain 
itself trembled, throwing all save Haqim himself to the 
ground. When they arose, they beheld a great throne of 
polished black stone, with the shaft of Haqim’s spear protrud-
ing from the place where the right hand of an occupant of 
the throne would rest. Haqim faced the throne with hands 
outstretched, as if communing with it or the mountain from 
which it had sprung.
With a cry, a black-feathered eagle swooped out of the 
sky, spread its wings to alight on the left arm of the throne 
and regarded Haqim with gleaming eyes. Then, as if reach-
ing some sort of decision, it flew to Haqim’s shoulder. The 


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
17
Ancestor turned to his Children and said, “Here. Our home 
is here, from this night until the Last. This place is ours, 
now and forever — to gather, to watch, to remember and 
to judge. This is the heart penetrated by the spear, the nest 
of eagles, and it shall ever be known as such.”
With a gesture, Haqim sank into the ground along with 
the throne. As his followers rushed forward, they found the 
mouth of a cave, sloping downward in a long, wide ramp, 
far too regular to be natural. Upon entering the cave, they 
discovered a vast network of caverns and passageways whose 
arrangement mimicked exactly that of Haqim’s palace in 
the Second City.
In the cavern that corresponded to the great hall of the 
palace, the explorers found Haqim, seated upon the throne, 
head bowed. His expression appeared pained and weary, 
as if he had just fought a great battle. Blood trickled from 
a dozen livid wounds. As Haqim’s eldest childe entered 
the cavern, the eagle launched itself from Haqim’s shoul-
der with a shriek. All eyes turned to follow it as it soared 
upward — toward the dark, open sky that somehow hung 
over the chamber despite the hundreds of feet of rock that 
should have been there.
Haqim sighed and raised his head, then stood, grasping 
his spear for support. “Here,” he repeated, and none could 
find reason or will to contest his decision.
Since that night, the Eagle’s Nest — Alamut — has 
been the spiritual and physical home of the Children of 
Haqim. A thousand stories exist about the Mountain and 
the marvels contained within it, and a fraction of them may 
even be true. But Alamut does exist, and it remains our 
heart even tonight. Although many of us may never again 
see its silent halls, it is a defining aspect of our clan. How 
many others can boast a home, albeit broken and barred, 
in these Final Nights?
Silence
For several thousand years after the Children settled 
at Alamut, little of note happened. While this may seem 
like a coy dismissal of our affairs at the dawn of Western 
civilization, the truth is that even Alamut’s Great Library 
contains years of crop records and trivial reminisces but 
virtually nothing of meaning to the casual scholar of 
history. All three castes gradually rebuilt their strength, 
granting the Blood to worthy mortals of Southwest Asia 
and North Africa, and these hardy people became the 
clan’s herds — and wards. Few mortals worshipped the 
Children as gods-on-Earth as they had in the Second 
City (a state of affairs that required no few elders to 
make adjustments to their self-images), but many clan 
members established themselves as regional lords or 
protectors of favored tribes. Some of their names still 
ring down the halls of history, albeit in forms that few 
of the original bearers would recognize.
During this time, the castes settled into the roles 
familiar to the modern observer. The viziers took it 
upon themselves to act as shepherds of Seth’s inheri-
tors, walking among the mortals and sharing in their 
achievements, laying the foundations for future growth 
much as other Cainites were doing in the West. The 
sorcerers withdrew to a certain extent, clustering around 
Haqim and Alamut and pursuing their individual 
studies of blood magic, though they often sought out 
specific learned mortals for knowledge that they could 
not acquire elsewhere. The judges, now almost fully 
turned warriors, served as the spear and shield of the 
Children, warding their brethren’s endeavors from the 
interference of others.
This is a vastly oversimplified and idealized account, 
but this can be excused to a certain extent, as few exist 
who truly remember those nights. While the Children 
did nurture the mortals of the region to a certain extent, 
their efforts were no more noble or altruistic than those 
of any other clan. Any intelligent group that depends 
on a single food source will encourage that food source’s 
growth in order to expand its own population. Haqim’s 
brood was no different.
In time, the Children spread forth from the Moun-
tain and returned to the once-fertile lands that had 
finally recovered from the Second City’s death throes. 
In these green valleys, they found thriving mortal 
populations greater than any they had seen in the bar-
ren wastes. And they found the forerunners of other 
Cainite populations, too, expanding outward from the 
wildernesses into which they had fled.
The expansion of the [13] great clans from the 
Second City had left the area that would become the 
Middle East with large Cainite populations of the Chil-
dren of Haqim and the Followers of Set. The views of 
these two parties on religion, vampiric existence and 
the proper treatment of mortals were often diametrically 
opposed. Small conflicts erupted throughout the region, 
encouraged by Cainite strife. While most Serpents were 
wise enough to behave diplomatically and submissively 
(or at least maintain low profiles) in order to coexist 
peacefully with the Children, many maneuvered their 
mortal pawns into striking at clan holdings and herds.
The Children rarely responded in kind, because 
Haqim encouraged his followers to make the distinction 
between a master and his unwitting proxies. He had little 
stomach for wholesale butchery of innocents. Thousands 
of years before mortals coined the term “assassin,” many 
warriors were already learning to strike from ambush, 
stalking those Cainites who fancied themselves puppet-


Clanbook: Assamite
18
masters. Slowly, the techniques of the judges found new 
applications as the tools of hunters.
Setites were the most commonly encountered 
Cainites of the region during this time, but they were 
far from the only ones. Members of every clan spo-
radically appeared in the lands that Caine’s inheritors 
called home, seeking knowledge or drawn back by some 
primordial call. The Children rendered judgement unto 
these visitors as individuals, despite pressure from some 
Second City-era elders to unilaterally condemn those 
who betrayed or abandoned Haqim. Those who failed 
to meet the judges’ standards of acceptable conduct and 
morality either saw their final sunrises or fled howling 
to their European brethren, depending on the severity 
of their offenses and the temperament of the individual 
warrior. These latter survivors spread tales of the “fear-
some black-skinned demons of the East,” spreading the 
roots of a legacy of fear that lasts to the modern nights.
Scions of nearly every clan settled along the southern 
and eastern coasts of the Mediterranean and spread in-
land during this time. The Children did not allow these 
scattered groups to establish domain so much as they 
were unable to prevent it. No matter how diligent the 
warriors were in enforcing what they saw as their borders, 
they were incapable of being everywhere at once. By 
the time many Cainite “intruders” were discovered, the 
price of expelling them exceeded the cost of tactfully 
ignoring them. The Toreador, Nosferatu and Lasombra 
were the most common, followed by the Brujah and the 
tribes of Ashur, but every Cainite line had some pres-
ence in the area by the time of the pharaohs.
This left the Children pinned in place. Western 
Asia was the domain of the Tzimisce, who enforced 
their sovereignty with ruthless enthusiasm and earthy 
sorcery. Equally strong and aggressive Kindred prevented 
expansion northeast. The south and east were the homes 
of other horrors that had little love for Cainites, and 
the few Children who limped back to Alamut after 
attempting to move in these directions reported that 
such Moon-Beasts and Wild Ones had no desire to share 
their lands and no fears regarding open conflict should 
Haqim choose to press the matter. The Setites stymied 
western movement and, beyond them, the other clans 
had claimed many havens.
This inability to move in any direction frustrated 
those elements in the clan who nurtured dreams of em-
pire. New herds and domains were limited by the rate at 
which the mortals could reproduce rather than by the 
speed at which the frontiers of the Children’s territory 
could expand. Precious resources became the subjects 
of power grabs that any modern Camarilla prince would 
recognize in an instant. The Children adapted all too 
well to this mode of conflict.
Haqim was less than pleased with this development. 
He left the First City to remove himself from the Jyhad; 
he left the Second City to remove his brood from it. The 
strife between his childer reminded him of the behavior 
of the other clans. He nursed a quiet fear that he had 
recreated the Jyhad in microcosm by isolating the three 
castes from their brethren. This fear manifested itself 
in a growing restlessness, and the Ancestor left Alamut 
for up to a decade at a time. During these absences, he 
left the Black Throne in the hands of his eldest childe 
present on the night of his departure, much as he had 
done in the Second City.
The final straw fell during the Peloponnesian War. 
Two centuries earlier, a cabal of viziers had taken up 
residence in Athens, entranced by that city’s centers of 
worship and learning. A similar group of warriors had 
entered Sparta at the sufferance of the city’s Ventrue 
prince at approximately the same time. When Corinth 
convinced Sparta’s elders to enter the Peloponnesian 
War against Athens, both groups quickly took direct 
hands in the conflict in order to ensure victory for 
“their” mortals.
In 413 B.C., when the Spartans destroyed the 
Athenian fleet, the Athenian Children of Haqim sent 
emissaries to Alamut to plead for Haqim’s favor and to 
gather allies among the warrior caste to support their 
cause. Upon hearing of this, the Spartan warriors sent 
their own representatives. The delegations arrived at 
the Mountain on the same night and fighting broke 
out among their mortal entourages. By the time the 
silsila had restored order, every Greek was dead and five 
Children lay among the fallen.
Haqim flew into a towering fury, nearly destroying 
the Great Hall in his wrath. Once he had regained the 
power of speech, he summoned the survivors before 
him. In a shattering tirade, he denounced both groups, 
the web of European Cainite intrigue in which they 
had allowed themselves to become ensnared. Then he 
denounced all of his Children for succumbing to the 
lure of the Jyhad.
“I gave you the opportunity to rise above the petty 
treacheries at which Caine’s lesser childer play,” Haqim 
raged, “and you ever prove yourselves unworthy of that 
opportunity. I am as dutiful a father to my own Children 
as any mortal child could ever ask of his sire, and you 
repay me by fighting among yourselves like starved 
wolves, then scampering to me to beg for my aid when 
the tide turns against you. Jackals, all! You sought my 
favor, but you have earned only my contempt. I will not 
save you from yourselves. Until I draw my spear from 
the Black Throne again, you have no sire, and I have 


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
19
no Children. Alamut is no longer my house, for you 
have left me no peace here.” So saying, he strode forth 
from the Mountain, striking down the one childe who 
dared beg his forgiveness.
All three castes quickly asserted that Haqim’s words 
had not applied to them, and that they should therefore 
claim the clan’s legacy. The warriors’ argument was that 
the Athenian viziers had provoked Haqim by being the 
first to seek his aid in a conflict that was obviously not 
theirs. The viziers countered that the warriors had been 
the first to strike directly at other Children. The sorcer-
ers held that they had not been involved in the conflict 
and thus had done nothing to incur Haqim’s wrath.
In the end, the warriors triumphed, less through 
diplomacy than via intimidation and a willingness to 
spill more vitae. The sorcerers might have been able 
to win the night, had they so desired, but the moderate 
Amr of the time counseled neutrality. In exchange for 
their withdrawal from the conflict, the sorcerers gained 
certain concessions, the greatest of which was the vi-
ziers’ continued survival as a caste. The struggle left the 
scholars bloodied and battered, but the sorcerers forced 
the warriors to concede their opponents’ continued 
value to the Children as a whole.
Haqim appeared to the clan about once a century 
after that incident, acting as occasional guardian or 
advisor but never leading. He never commented on the 
state of affairs within the Children — or, at least, those 
to whom he spoke kept the conversations to themselves. 
He last visited Alamut in 68 B.C., staying in the Great 
Library for close to six months before departing. Those 
present at the time noted that the Ancestor seemed 
disturbed, even openly frightful, and that he spent an 
inordinate amount of time reviewing the clan’s earliest 
records. He left the Mountain on the night before the 
first Roman troops marched into Asia Minor to begin 
Rome’s annexation of Syria and Palestine.
I should note that, with regard to dates, I have taken 
a minor liberty in editing this history. Most non-Western 
Children of Haqim adhere to the Muslim calendar, not 
the Christian one. This system of dating begins its count 
in A.D. 622, the year in which Mohammed led his fol-
lowers forth from Mecca in the journey now known as 
the “Hijra.” For the sake of the intended audience, which 
largely reckons its dates by the Christian calendar, I 
have made appropriate transpositions.
The Ancestor appeared to the Children twice more 
after that. The first time was in Antioch a century later. 
Haqim entered the city with little fanfare (or as little 
as was possible for a being of his power) and inquired 
into the researches of the sorcerers who dwelt there. 
The second was in the period between A.D. 117 and 
A.D. 120, during which he made a score of stops on a 
journey that took him westward from the Holy Land. 
In early 121, a party of mercenary warriors met Haqim 
in the British Isles, apparently while he was involved 
in an extended philosophical discussion with the Ven-
true elder known as Mithras. Shortly thereafter, the 
Ancestor vanished. All subsequent attempts to locate 
him have failed.
Nightmares  of 
Empire
The rise of Western civilization brought the Chil-
dren of Haqim into close contact with the rest of the 
Cainite world again. During the time of the Greek 
city-states and the height of Persian dominance, few 
clans other than the Brujah, Ravnos, Setites and the 
Tzimisce had enjoyed more than sporadic encounters 
with the Children. However, as Rome expanded and, 
later, as Byzantium rose, those kingdoms’ Cainite para-
sites moved with them, struggling in vain to control the 
first mortal institutions that were more complex than 
they could comprehend.
The Roman Era
The Children of Haqim never had an extensive role 
in the Roman empire’s life or death. Scattered mem-
bers of all three castes moved through Roman society, 
particularly in the eastern and southern regions of the 
empire, and no few warriors found mercenary employ-
ment as bodyguards or household troop commanders 
for wealthy Ventrue and Malkavians.
In truth, prior to the fall of Carthage, the Children 
as a whole paid little attention to Rome. It was no more 
than a distant rumbling on the horizon of history, and 
Iran, Egypt, Aram and other parties disputed lands closer 
to home. With these disputes came various Cainite 
claimants — and other forces as well.
After the Third Punic War, however, the Children 
could no longer ignore the power that had all but an-
nihilated the North African branch of the clan. The 
elders of Alamut examined Rome, and at that empire’s 
heart they saw a festering web of Cainite influence 
that spoke of greater threats yet to arise. For their part, 
Rome’s own Cainite inhabitants remembered the swords 
that had aided the Brujah cause during the long wars 
in Carthage, and their rising strength washed away any 
fear they might have otherwise had of the Children. 
Rome needed little urging to turn its acquisitive eyes 
eastward. By the middle of the second century B.C., 


Clanbook: Assamite
20
Macedonia and Thrace were under Roman dominion. 
Another century, and Bithinya and Syria followed suit, 
putting Rome’s knife at the throat of the East.
Rome was never a place of particular interest for the 
Children, but the Parthian empire was. Arising in Iran 
a century before Rome’s ascent began, Parthia spread 
through the Mesopotamian region in the wake of the 
crumbling Seleucid dynasty. Many Children encour-
aged the Parthian expansion, save for those who had 
maintained close ties to the Seleucids. Some saw Parthia 
as a rich ground on which to sate their particular hun-
gers, whether for vitae, battle or learning, while others 
simply welcomed an end to the chaotic infighting that 
surrounded their homes. Following the destruction of 
Carthage and the subsequent Roman expansion west, 
Parthia quickly became all too significant to the Chil-
dren as the force holding the Roman Cainites at bay. 
All three castes devoted themselves to reinforcing the 
mortals who could fend off their undead adversaries.
Some of those few Children who held to the Jewish 
faith post-Embrace became active against Rome at least 
a century earlier than their brethren of different faiths. 
The soil of Palestine reportedly still holds several torpid 
elders of our clan who fell during the revolt there — and 
the ashes of several more elders of other clans who fell 
to their fangs and blades.
By the middle of the second century A.D., events 
surrounding Rome had forced the Children to coexist 
with other Cainites or perish. Egypt, Syria, Armenia 
and other outlying lands were now under Roman con-
trol. Ventrue, Toreador, Malkavians and others came 
to the lands of the Children. In the Cainite courts 
of Alexandria, Damascus and other great cities, the 
castes emulated the European political dance, trading 
favors and secrets in search of leverage and power. The 
Parthians and their superb cavalry held the Romans 
at bay, but the eastern coast of the Mediterranean was 
now home to far more undead, and the bloody flower 
of the Jyhad slowly blossomed again.
Carthage
Although few outside that clan acknowledge it in 
the modern nights, the Brujah fever-dream that was 
Carthage was home to no few of Haqim’s childer. Our 
clan was the second most numerous there after the city’s 
Cainite fathers. However, a few Brujah elders who still 
remember Carthage recall our presence there as a unified 
one. Nothing could have been farther from the truth.
In the outset, Carthage was a trade center and the 
heart of Phoenicia. Several viziers with mercantile 
interests entered into partnerships or competition with 
like-minded Brujah. As Brujah dominance of the city 


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
21
grew and their vision of an Elysian kingdom to rival the 
Second City took shape, Carthage attracted attention 
from the warriors and sorcerers who knew their history 
well enough to recall their castes’ original charters. 
Surely this Carthage could not be the paradise that 
their brethren’s accounts portrayed it to be, they said, for 
they knew all too well the excesses that open existence 
among mortals brought. Had Haqim not formed their 
lines to combat such decadence?
And yet, when the first warriors who wished to be 
judges again arrived in Carthage, the Brujah greeted 
them with open arms and bade them stay for as long 
as they liked. The truth, at least in the beginning, was 
with the tales that filtered back to Alamut. Carthage 
was indeed a city wherein mortals and Cainites mingled 
freely, each doing his share to further the city’s greatness. 
The Children stayed, suspicious at first but gradually 
coming to share the Brujah ideals. In time, they became 
so complacent that they forgot the suspicions that had 
brought them there.
No two accounts agree on the exact point at which 
the Carthaginian Children discarded their heritage and 
joined the Baali’s rites that the most decadent of the 
Brujah conducted. At some point between the First and 
Second Punic Wars, however, a visiting warrior discov-
ered this treachery when his childe, flushed with the 
excitement of the forbidden, invited him to partake of 
the blood of a childe sacrifice. He cut his way out of the 
city and fled to Alamut, his steps dogged every inch of 
the way by a pack of maddened traitors and their allies 
and debauched servants. The initial response was swift 
and bloody, as a cabal of sorcerers turned the revenants 
back upon their masters, some of whom had remained 
behind in Carthage.
By the end of the Second Punic War, warriors and 
sorcerers cautiously crept into Carthage, guided by the 
remaining viziers who had not succumbed to the city’s 
madness. In a city so filled with Cainites, they could eas-
ily disguise their intentions and, in some cases, conceal 
their presence for months or even years. When Rome 
landed its finishing blow in 146 B.C., the loyal Children 
silently struck at their decadent, vitae-bloated brethren, 
crippling their support of the Carthaginian Brujah at a 
time when the city’s masters needed every ally.
Unfortunately for the Children who were within 
the city, the Roman forces cared nothing for hidden 
allies (or even enemies of their enemies). Only a ragged 
handful of survivors escaped Carthage’s fall. The Ven-
true and Malkavians and their allies cut down the rest 
along with every other Cainite within the walls. We 
could not forgive the Romans, for they knew, and they 
did nothing to spare those of our blood who stood to 
assist them. Nor could we forgive them the deaths of 
those Children who stood with Carthage, for, misguided 
though they may have been, they were our brethren, 
and it was our place to punish them.
When I first visited Carthage, it promised to spring 
forth as the fulfillment of an ages-old dream. When I 
last saw it, it had flowered into a nightmare unsurpassed 
in history. The city is best forgotten.
Byzantium
The western portion of the Roman empire crumbled 
by the end of the fifth century, eaten from within by 
civil war and from without by barbarian invasions. In 
the East, however, the city of Byzantium formed the 
core for a continuation of the empire. 
A sharp division arose within the Children of 
Haqim. Most of the clan felt that Byzantium was the 
mortal kingdom that would unite the world as Rome 
had failed to do. As such, it would forever remain a 
power that others would be forced to ally with or op-
pose — there could be no middle ground. The division 
arose from differing views on such a power’s treatment. 
Some Children felt that the long centuries of isolation 
were a thing of the past, that it was time to coexist 
with other Cainites, that Byzantine expansion was as 
inevitable as the sunrise and it was best to be safely 
ensconced in a political haven when that dawn came. 
Others believed that as long as Persia and Arabia 
remained strong, Alamut and its surrounding lands 
would be free of the threat of the other clans — the 
Children should devote all their resources to the op-
position of Byzantium.
This division never came to open bloodshed, but it 
drove a wedge of mistrust through the clan’s heart. Those 
Children who supported the Byzantine courts sneered 
at their Eastern brethren, considering them staid and 
incapable of change. Those who kept to the Eastern 
nations found their Western counterparts mercurial, 
rebellious and untrustworthy.
The Long Twilight
Kings came and went, and Europe fell whimpering 
into the Dark Ages as Rome thrashed itself to death. 
Byzantium hung on longer than the West, but in time it 
passed as well. In our homelands, the Children nurtured 
the cultures of the Persians and the Arabs. Some brave 
souls, hungry for new domain, rode with the expeditions 
that went south and east, tentatively probing along the 
burgeoning trade routes, searching for any signs of the 
threats we had found there before. In time, we met the 
natives of Taugast and India and, though we were never 


Clanbook: Assamite
22
comrades, some among us learned how to avoid offend-
ing them. This did not lend itself to heavy expansion, 
but a steady trickle of knowledge and respect began to 
flow both ways.
Many European military actions during this time 
relied heavily on mercenaries, and Cainite practices 
mirrored those of the mortals. Members of all castes, 
though most commonly warriors, found acceptance in 
the Western courts as hired swords or court advisors. 
The warrior caste’s practice of a tithe to one’s sire of any 
such earnings arose during this period. Caste apocrypha 
attributes it to the Caliph of the time, the Ethiopian 
spearmaster Mohara. Mohara, upon learning that all four 
of his childer intended to take a blood-contract with a 
widely distrusted Lasombra prince, said in disgust, “If 
you must sell yourselves so cheaply, the least you can 
do is send me a portion of the gold you will earn, that 
I may be compensated in some small measure for the 
curse of undeath that you whore for no good cause.” 
Mohara’s childer took his sarcasm at face value and sent 
him a fifth of their earnings every year. Other warriors, 
seeing the Caliph’s own progeny doing this, began to 
curry favor with their own sires and superiors by tithing 
in a similar manner.
Aside from such endeavors, Europe was largely an 
unwelcoming, even hostile, place during these centuries. 
The rise of Christendom brought suspicion of paynim 
and “pagan outlanders,” and many of the Children were 
of mortal stock that stood out in Germany or France 
(though the Iberian Peninsula was more welcoming of 
swarthy non-Christians).
The East, by comparison, was a more comfortable 
home, though by no means a paradise. The rise of 
the Sassanids in Persia brought with it a centralized 
militant government that stirred the cold hearts of 
many warriors. However, between the fourth and sixth 
centuries, the Arabian Peninsula fell into its own Dark 
Age as trade routes declined. The peace between Per-
sian and Byzantium deprived the Arabian economy 
of the constant enrichment from the nearby war. In 
an odd compromise, the viziers and the warriors both 
stoked the fires of acquisitiveness in both kingdoms, 
contributing to the renewed outbreak of conflict in 
the sixth century.
The Prophet
In the late sixth century, a mortal was born who 
forever shaped the destiny of his homeland. His name 
was Mohammed. In the year 609, God spoke to him 
through the angel Gabriel. By his death on June 8, 632, 
he had achieved what no Western prophet before him 
had: He conquered his own holy land and achieved 
military, political and religious power within his own 
lifetime.
He also conquered the souls of the Children of 
Haqim.
The Children had watched Jesus come and go some 
six centuries earlier with disinterest. Judaism was strong 
in those who had held it before receiving the Blood, 
but it attracted few new converts. The Zoroastrian and 
Mithraic religions were dying or dead among the mortals 
and in decline among the Kindred. But the Prophet was 
the best of all that the Children cherished among the 
mortals. He was strong, yet humble when it was required 
of him. He never claimed to be more than a mortal man, 
nor expected to become anything more. His Allah was 
harsh yet merciful, and he was a proponent of ideals 
toward which many of Haqim’s childer strove. Islam’s 
message was not to be forced upon those who did not 
choose to follow it, for the Qur’an stated, “There is no 
compulsion in religion.”
In early Islamic justice, the warriors (and, to a lesser 
extent, the sorcerers) saw echoes of the laws that Haqim 
had created them to enforce. The source of the rumor 
is untraceable tonight, but as Mohammed’s influence 
rose, a whisper passed through the halls of Alamut that 
Islam was Haqim’s will, that with its appearance came 
the clan’s last chance to redeem itself in the eyes of 
the Ancestor. And so the Children, now five centuries 
without their sire, clutched at this faint hope and took 
it upon themselves to shield Mohammed’s inheritors 
and to take his faith as their own.
Islam captivated many of the Children, but it never 
achieved the “clan religion” status that some ascribed 
to it. In addition to the other mortal faiths practiced 
by clan members, it had to contend with the memory of 
Haqim, who many remembered as something nigh unto 
their personal deity. For every member of the clan who 
adopted Islam, two turned away from it. Furthermore, 
several of the tenets of Islam contradict the Path of Blood. 
Allah the Merciful does not promote genocide. In this, the 
misconceptions of the Western mortals are often shared by 
their Cainite counterparts.
I can personally state with absolute certainty that 
Haqim had nothing to do with Mohammed’s religion, 
though he might have approved of it in an abstract sense.
Thirst
In 636, the Arabs seized Palestine and Syria from 
the Byzantine empire. Warriors of the Children rode 
with them, for the infernal tribes had once more reared 
their heads in the Holy Land. It was our duty to strike 
them down before they could poison the well from 
which the word of Allah flowed.


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
23
The initial campaigns went well, scattering the 
Baali’s mortal pawns and forcing the masters themselves 
into a panicked retreat to their unholy city of Chora-
zin. During the rout, several parties of warriors ranged 
well ahead of the Arab armies. One of these bands was 
somehow captured, and the venerators of demons took 
that small band of warriors to Chorazin with them.
The Children mounted a rescue attempt, but 
Chorazin’s defenses held back the massed might of every 
warrior who could take that bloody field. The Caliph 
sent to Alamut for assistance from the sorcerers, and 
the Amr responded that he and his forces would move 
to assist the warriors with all possible haste.
With the sorcerers less than a night away, the wall 
of Chorazin fell. The warriors and their mortal troops 
stormed through the breach, cutting a relentless swath 
to the city’s temples where the blood cult cowered. As 
the assault on the temples began, however, the host of 
the Adversary unleashed their final strike. The warriors 
clawed at themselves as black fire struck at them from 
the ground. They howled with an unquenchable thirst. 
Seeking vitae, they tore into their own troops, who fled 
at this betrayal.
Al-Ashrad and his forces arrived as the enemy 
surged forth from the temple in a counterattack. 
The sorcerers unleashed their magics, binding and 
banishing demons and incinerating the Baali even 
as they strove to dispel the madness that had struck 
the warriors.
As Chorazin burned, the combined strength of the 
Children of Haqim overwhelmed the last defenders 
of the temple. Inside, they found but one survivor of 
those who the Baali had taken prisoner. He gasped out 
a fearful tale, one that few gave credence for months 
to come. The Baali had said to him, “As you thirst 
for our blood, so shall you hunger for all blood for all 
time.” Then they had used the captured warriors as a 
focus for a curse that intensified their ancient craving 
a thousandfold. 
Neonate and Methuselah alike fell prey to a dread-
ful hunger that could be satisfied only by the vitae of 
other Cainites. As the curse spread across the caste, the 
sorcerers and viziers searched in vain for a way to break 
it. By the end of the 14th century, the entire warrior 
caste and no few sorcerers and viziers were afflicted.


Clanbook: Assamite
24
Invasion
From the distance of centuries, it is easy to ac-
knowledge that the Jyhad had little or nothing to do 
with the Crusades. Population pressure produced too 
many European minor nobles with nothing to do but 
plot against, and occasionally kill, each other. Fearing 
wars that would devastate the territories in which it held 
sway, the Church chose to direct that aggression and 
acquisitiveness elsewhere. The Holy Land was a logical 
target, held by infidels and nonbelievers who openly 
rejected Christ’s divinity. The knights who rode forth to 
reclaim Jerusalem would be in the moral right, and the 
wealth they plundered would flow into both their own 
coffers and those of the archbishops who urged them on. 
Any Cainite involvement in the endeavor was purely an 
afterthought as European elders turned their own gazes 
toward Palestine.
From the perspective of those who stood in the path 
of the first Crusaders in the twilight of the 11th century, 
the invasion from the West was nothing less than the 
opening stroke of an unprecedented maneuver in the 
Jyhad calculated to erase the Children of Haqim from the 
world forever. The Christian minority of the clan may 
have attempted to reason or negotiate, but their pleas 
vanished in the din of battle. Many escaped to Iberia, 
only to be caught up in the Reconquista a century later.
The Children of Haqim were far from the only Cainite 
defenders of the Holy Land, though few are willing to 
make such an admission even tonight. Many Lasombra 
were of Muslim faith, as were a fair number of Nosferatu, 
Gangrel, Tzimisce and Toreador who called the Holy Land 
home. In the bitterest of ironies, the Followers of Set became 
some of our most valued (though never trusted) allies as 
they defended their own holdings.
Our herds and wards rushed to engage the Europe-
ans in battle, and we could do no less. All three castes 
joined together in a unified effort not seen in centuries, 
striking against the Cainite nobility who came with the 
Crusaders as best they were able. Two and a half centuries 
of war melted away all facets of the clan that were not 
essential to survival, forging a blade ready to be plunged 
into the collective heart of the Western Kindred. In 
parallel with the successes of the mortal Assassins, many 
warriors gave up open confrontation in favor of stealth, 
guile and a knife in the dark. While adherents to more 
traditional forms of honor spat upon these treacherous 
tactics, the new breed of warriors maintained that their 
own honor was in the service to the Haqim and to their 
mortal wards; the form of the act was not as important as 
its ultimate results. This debate continues to the present 
night and will most likely remain unresolved as long as 
two warriors still walk the earth.
In truth, the fabled “unity” among the Children only 
manifested in times of desperation, such as the fall of 
Jerusalem. Infighting during this time was the bloodiest 
seen since Haqim’s departure from Alamut as varying 
factions of the clan vied for ascendance and the right to 
guide resistance against the Crusades.
The bloodthirst levied upon the warrior caste by 
the Baali mounted in strength during these centuries. 
By the time of the Fourth Crusade, over half the war-
rior caste thirsted for Cainite vitae nightly. In another 
century, not a single warrior was unafflicted. As the 
thirst grew, so too did the warriors’ aggression, and even 
the combined influence of the sorcerers and the viziers 
was not enough to restrain them.
Ivory Towers and 
Crimson Blades
In the distant wake of the Crusades, the terrible 
nights that some call the Burning Times came to Europe. 
The Inquisition never really touched the Holy Land, 
nor did it extend into the Ottoman Empire or parts 
farther east. While we licked our wounds and cast our 
eyes west, the European elders sacrificed their childer 
for the hope of another night’s survival. Too many of 
those intended victims survived and fled east, preferring 
to take their chances with the dread Saracens than with 
their sires’ betrayals and the Church’s flame-lit crosses. 
As the Setites gave them shelter for a price and the 
younger Tzimisce and cagey Ventrue gathered them as 
allies, we listened to them and saw opportunity. The 
elders who had set their minions upon our havens were 
weakened and in disarray. Justice was long overdue. 
When the Anarch Revolt came, we were ready. Our 
own warriors surged forth into Europe, lending their 
own steel and fangs to the tide of rage.
The terror our warriors spread in their wake was 
hugely disproportionate to their actual numbers, or 
even to the number of elders they slew. Their greatest 
contribution to the Anarch Revolt was not blades, but 
rather lessons. A modern mortal government would 
recognize them as military advisors or agents provocateur. 
In torch-lit caves and shadowed basements, the greatest 
hunters of the Web of Knives and the surest swordsmen 
of Alamut taught the scattered childer of Europe how 
to lay low their elders.
To be sure, we did not restrain our own thirsts 
during this time. The Prince of Hamburg still tells the 
tale of the Night of Ashes, when we slew every Cainite 
in Berlin, allowing only him to escape with his unlife 
so that he might tell the tale. Similar stories are now 


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
25
institutional memories in the Camarilla and the Sabbat 
alike, lessons as to why we cannot be reasoned with or 
dealt with fairly. And we reveled in the terror that pre-
ceded us like the first cold raindrops of a summer storm.
Cornerstones
As the Anarch Movement rampaged across the 
Western world, Europe’s elders feared (rightly) for their 
unlives. Fear is a motivational tool unlike any other, 
though its results are rarely those desired by the group 
wielding it. In this case, fear led to organization. A small 
band of elders convinced themselves that solidarity was 
the answer to their woes. By forming some kind of “great 
brotherhood of all Cainites,” they could provide the 
anarchs a cause greater and more enduring than their 
hasty movement — oh, yes, and enforce Caine’s First 
Tradition in order to ensure that the Inquisition never rose 
against all Cainites again. Needless to say, the Children 
of Haqim were not impressed, nor were we invited to 
lend our hands to laying this ivory tower’s foundations.
The Camarilla issued a token invitation to the Children 
of Haqim so that, later, they could truthfully claim to 
have done so. The Ventrue elder Hardestadt then allowed 
the emissary’s travel plans to fall into the hands of a 
member of the Web of Knives, who summarily slew the 
unfortunate neonate and consumed her heart’s blood. The 
invitation never reached Alamut… and it is doubtful that 
many Children would have wished to accept it in any event.
The Great Lie
The Camarilla grew rapidly as its founders convinced 
more and more anarchs to come in from the cold. This 
enraged many Children operating in Europe who saw 
their erstwhile allies deserting them for the promise of 
sanctuary that they could have earned for themselves 
anyway if they had possessed the strength to continue 
their fight. They turned their attention to this Camarilla 
with a fury born of betrayal.
The Great Lie began simply enough, its seed cast 
onto fertile ground by the Tremere Etrius, who sought a 
way to reason with us in order to stop our attacks. One 
of his younger subordinates commented that he had 
heard tales of peaceful Assamites who dwelt far to the 
east, to which Etrius responded, “But that is the heart of 
the matter. Though some tell tales of peaceful Saracens, 
I have never seen one with these eyes. They may exist 
in some fever dream, but I place my own faith in the 
evidence that their knives and fangs present. They are 
killers, nothing more, and anything else they might have 
been died long ago, presumably by their own hands.”
The warriors heard reports of similar statements 
from across Europe. Their pride swelled. Their strength 


Clanbook: Assamite
26
and accomplishments were so great as to erase the very 
memory of the viziers and the sorcerers from the minds 
of the other clans. In a thousand subtle ways, they fueled 
these impressions: a chance remark here, the silencing of 
a too-vocal vizier there. Memories were all too willing to 
fade when confronted with an apparently unified threat.
By 1486, the Camarilla believed in the Assamite 
threat enough to declare its first and last Blood Hunt 
against an entire clan.
The Blood-Witches’ Curse
The Convention of Thorns ended the Anarch 
Revolt in 1493. As the anarch threat ebbed, the Ca-
marilla shifted its attention almost exclusively to us. 
The fall of Granada the year before stripped us of our 
last Moorish allies in Europe, and French Toreador and 
Ventrue marched with Charles VIII to burn us out of 
Italy the year after. Gradually, the concerted might of 
seven clans forced our warriors out of Europe. The few 
remaining European viziers and sorcerers fell as well, 
victims of their own heritage as Tremere blood magic 
guided the pogrom.
In late 1495, sentries found a lone Nosferatu wan-
dering the slopes of the Mountain, bewildered and 
disoriented by Alamut’s array of concealing magics but 
somehow there nonetheless. He was quickly brought to 
the du’at council. His memories were mined and then 
plundered (rumor has it that he rests in torpor in the 
haven of one of Haqim’s followers to this night), but he 
had done his damage. If one Camarilla Cainite could 
find Alamut, others might as well, and that could not 
be allowed to happen. In order to render justice later, 
we had to submit to injustice for a time. The Eldest re-
luctantly sued for peace. Many Children saw the result, 
1496’s Treaty of Tyre, as a token capitulation that only 
need be heeded as long as it was a convenient sop for 
Camarilla paranoia.
Then the Tremere laid their curse. In the space of a 
week, every one of the Children found himself wracked 
by numbing agony and, upon awakening, was incapable 
of imbibing the vitae of a member of any other clan — 
or even one of the clanless — without risking torpor 
or Final Death. The result was shock and terror. How 
had the blood-witches managed such a feat? A curse 
levied upon an entire line was outside the realm of even 
the mightiest sorcerers — even that which the demon-
worshippers enacted so long ago had been fueled by the 
spite of the Adversary himself.
The Children demanded a response, and the du’at 
council found the Eldest guilty of leading the Chil-
dren to humiliation. In a solemn ceremony under the 
cloud-shrouded ceiling of the Great Hall, he stepped 
down from the Black Throne. In his last act, the Eldest 
charged the Caliph, Jamal, to redeem the Children for 
his failure. Then Jamal stripped the Eldest of the Blood 
and ascended to the Black Throne. Our centuries of 
disgrace had begun.
The saga of the Assamite antitribu began within a 
fortnight of Jamal’s assumption of the Black Throne. Several 
ancient warriors felt that to accept the Tremere curse was 
the height of cowardice and that such quiet acceptance was 
a stain upon the clan’s honor — regardless of the fact 
that the sorcerers had yet to identify the means by which 
the Tremere had found the power to enact their witchery.
Several of the sorcerers supporting these0warriors 
believed they had found a means by which the Tremere 
spell might be broken. On their word, these so-called 
Unconquered set forth from Alamut to journey to the hell-
city where the infernalists had cursed their line. Although 
the Baali were little but a distant memory by now, the 
sorcerers believed that the place from which that curse had 
sprung might yield clues to the breaking of this new one.
The effort did not go as anticipated. While the 
sorcerers were able to reawaken one of the cursed altars 
and strip the power of the Tremere blood from their own 
small band, they also awakened something else that had 
lain buried beneath Chorazin for nearly a millennium. 
No two survivors of that night tell the same tale of the 
bloodstorm that came after, but at its end, every vizier 
and sorcerer who had ridden with the Unconquered was 
destroyed, the secret of their success lost with them. The 
eldest surviving warrior, Izhim abd’Azrael, led his tat-
tered followers forth from the ruins of that blighted city 
in search of a new home. In time, they joined the nascent 
Sabbat, accepting the name “Assamite antitribu” and the 
chance to kill Cainites of the Camarilla.
The March of 
“Progress”
In the centuries that followed, the Children ven-
tured forth cautiously from the East. Most of those who 
came forth were warriors, their bloodthirst now tempered 
by Tremere magic. Few other Children left the Middle 
East, the better to lend credence to the deception that 
was still in place. Few Camarilla Cainites so much as 
suspected the existence of the viziers or the sorcerers — 
which, so far as Jamal was concerned, was all to the best.
The New World held no particular imperative for 
us, but some of our warriors set forth for foreign shores 
in search of a cure for the curse or an opportunity to 
leave behind its stinging disgrace. The North American 
colonies were too inhospitable for most of us, save for 


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
27
those Unconquered who found themselves on American 
shores. However, the native peoples of Aztlan were a 
different matter. Members of all three castes settled in 
the jungle cities, glutting themselves in savage blood rites 
and marveling at the wondrous achievements of those 
cultures. Some of those pioneers, or their descendants, 
still remain in the great cities of Mexico and Brazil and 
in lofty ruins in the Andes.
Closer to home, the struggle against the curse fared 
ill. A mortal generation after the Treaty of Tyre, the 
Tzimisce took the opportunity of the Ottoman Empire’s 
invasion of Europe to strike at the Camarilla. We were 
more than eager to lend our own skills to the effort, 
which culminated in 1529 with a yearlong siege of Vi-
enna itself. Our sorcerers flocked to the Turkish forces, 
eager to test their magics against those of the Tremere. 
In the end, Austria proved equal to the challenge, but 
for every one of the Children who fell, the ashes of 
two Warlocks brightened the sunrise. A second siege 
in 1683 fared no better, and Ottoman power declined 
with their losses.
While the other clans expanded into the New 
World, we turned our attentions west and south. With 
the British colonization of India, the forces that had 
opposed our movement in that direction suddenly van-
ished. We cautiously extended our strength, careful to 
not reveal ourselves to the British Ventrue of the area. 
The broods of several ancient Ravnos lent their support 
to us, granting substantial domains in exchange for the 
aid of our knives against the Europeans. In time, the 
vast cities of Bombay and Calcutta became homes to 
us as well. Many Children found peace — or at least 
serenity — in the teachings of the Buddha, and the 
thousand gods of the Hindus whispered to us of myster-
ies unrevealed.
Throughout the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, 
we were largely observers at the wayside of Cainite 
history. The Camarilla came to regard us as toothless 
and harmless, an emasculated curiosity — but one 
still useful, as Alamut’s records of mercenary contracts 
prove. Many warriors found chances to kill Camarilla 
Cainites after all — in the employ of other Camarilla 
members. Vitae came to be the standard currency 
by which one could buy our services, explained as a 
religious devotion to Haqim. The Camarilla laughed 
at our foolish devotion to a nonexistent creature of 
legend and paid freely in coin they thought we could 
not spend. Few, if any, ever suspected our other uses 
for their blood. In his search for a cure to the curse, 
the Amr had struck upon the ritual he named the 
Renewal of the Soul, by which a sorcerer of sufficient 
strength could condense the essence of a sufficient 


Clanbook: Assamite
28
quantity of vitae and confer a sort of false diablerie 
upon the beneficiary. The sorcerers demanded little 
for this service, save a quantity of vitae equal to that 
required by the ritual; this payment flowed into their 
laboratories, where it fueled the continuing battle 
against the curse.
Material samples also make for highly effective 
political leverage.
The Century of Blood
In the span of a mortal generation, the world burned 
and bled twice. The first time, our warriors wept for the 
death of honor at the hands of hollow-cheeked boys 
with eyes of glass and spears of lead. The second time, 
they embraced the storm of metal as it swept across 
North Africa. Germany was no friend to us, but the 
lessons they taught gave us hope. Stripped of strength 
after the Great War but arising to shake the founda-
tions of the world again in thirty years, the Third Reich 
was a shining example to us of the renewal we could 
achieve. Among the lies, misdirection and propaganda, 
we watched. We should have paid more attention to 
the rot at its heart rather than the gleam and thunder 
of its hands. History repeats itself.
We learned from the Allies, too — the first nights 
of the Special Air Service and the blood-price the 
Rangers paid on the cliffs at Normandy, the thin gray 
lines of starving men in the Russian factories and fields, 
the desperate, secret struggle of the French Resistance. 
From these, we learned the strength that can be born of 
desperation, and we finally understood the Camarilla.
And when the war in the Pacific ended in a sky-
searing fireball and the howl of a maddened sun, it was 
the viziers’ and sorcerers’ turn to weep. The mortals had 
learned to chain the lightning, and we knew from nights 
of antiquity that the world bleeds in threes.
The Great War was a war for the viziers, with the 
mad pace of innovation outstripping the art of the 
battlefield. The Second World War was a war for the 
warriors, as the mortals gained the knowledge to use 
their newfound weapons to greatest effect. When the 
world bleeds again, it will be a war for the sorcerers, and 
that blood will feed upon their magic.
“Peace”
After the fires had died and the ashes had cooled 
and the dead had been sunk in the earth, the mortals 
re-drew the lines on their maps. They wreathed Europe 
in cement and wire, broke Germany s back (but left 
Austria to itself), placed America on a pedestal and 
partitioned the Middle East based on some Western 


Chapter One: How Quickly We Forgot
29
madness. And in the process they partitioned us, for 
we clung more tightly to our mortality than we cared 
to admit. The Leopards of Zion, recurring martyrs for 
the Jewish faith, rose again to defend Israel from other 
Cainites, and we bade them fortune. India drew in on 
itself, looked at its past, found the future there, and 
began to quietly build. We watched and marveled 
that such strength could grow unnoticed. The Arabs 
battened on a diet of oil and turned the deserts green. 
We learned anew the power that comes with wealth.
It is having learned these bitter lessons that the 
Children of Haqim face each new night. The sorcer-
ers  war looms, replacing crushed herbs and graven 
symbols with wands of fire that cut across the sky and 
horned imps who lie and connive in their staterooms. 
Even the Children of Haqim themselves are not 
exempt   the great Schism that divides us into sects 
and cults of personality have no lesser toll than the 
wars of nations or the bloody theaters of the  Kindred 
s  grandest Jyhads.
It is a sad legacy, true  but is it one of failure? Or of 
victory at crippling cost? We shall tell before we greet 
too many new nights.
So How Many Assassins Are There, 
Anyway?
The number of warrior-caste Assamites who 
actually worked as contract assassins prior to the 
Schism (see Chapter Two) is indeterminate. Of these, 
perhaps half are warriors, and only half of those are 
actual combat specialists of one type or another.
The numbers dwindle further when one con-
siders how many of those actual warriors are not 
assassins, either by skill or temperament. When 
all is said and done, perhaps a few score Assamites 
worked as fulltime assassins immediately prior to 
the Breaking and the Schism, and maybe twice that 
number apocryphally sought occasional employment 
to supplement their other pursuits. However, the 
Ventrue records maintained by the Inner Council 
on unsanctioned Camarilla contracting list over 
2000 names of Assamites hired for assassination 
since the Treaty of Tyre. Either the estimates are 
frightfully incorrect, or the Assamites often used 
alternate identities to confuse their benefactors, 
or other parties claiming to be Assamites executed 
some of those contracts….


Clanbook: Assamite
30


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
31
Chapter Two: 
Prayers to 
Broken Stone
Hard pressed on my right. My center is yielding. Impossible to ma-
neuver. Situation excellent. I am attacking.
— Ferdinand Foch at the Battle of the Marne
Until the last nights of the 20th century, the As-
samites were an impenetrable mystery to the rest of the 
Cainite world, all sharp steel and thinly veiled threats. 
Recent events, however, have brought to light aspects 
of the clan that few had previously considered possible, 
let alone likely. While the clan’s contract assassins and 
their ilk are no less formidable, they are far from being 
the only Assamites. The clan has a unique tripartite 
structure that few outsiders have knowingly glimpsed 
in the past millennium. This odd “family tree” has its 
roots in the Second City and has remained relatively 
stable into the modern nights.
Scholars of Cainite history and physiology disagree 
on the reasons by which the Assamites’ caste structure 
has survived over the centuries. The most well-known 
theory, proposed by noted Malkavian Dr. Douglas 
Netchurch, has to do with evolutionary pressure. During 
the millennium or so after the fall of the Second City, 
many Assamites settled in the Middle East, an area of 
the world that other clans largely scorned. This gave the 
clan’s main population a degree of isolation unknown 
to the vampires of Europe, who had to contend with 
members of close to a dozen other clans for territory 
and social position.
By comparison, the Assamites had relatively few 
neighbors to fill the various niches that inevitably 
develop in Kindred society: the Followers of Set, who 
were more competitors than allies, and a scattered few 
Nosferatu, Toreador, Gangrel and Tzimisce, all of whom 
tended to their own affairs. Lacking competition for 
certain roles, the clan thus maintained its separation 
of duties over the millennia rather than becoming 
specialized to one particular mode of existence. The 
viziers tended to the mortal herds, the judges (now the 
warriors) tended to the clan’s defense, and the sorcerers 
pursued their secrets. This division of labor allowed the 
Assamites to succeed on their own where a clan priding 
itself on its specialization, such as the noble Ventrue or 
the socialite Toreador, would have failed. Some Cainite 
scholars believe that the clan’s own internal caste sys-
tem evolved parallel to those employed by the mortal 
cultures of the region.
Needless to say, this theory meets with considerable 
opposition, particularly from Cainites who consider 


Clanbook: Assamite
32
or at least a truce with, the Camarilla, while another 
third seems to have redoubled its efforts to wipe every 
other vampire from the face of the planet. The only 
certainty where Haqim’s childer are concerned is that 
their current state of upheaval will shake the founda-
tions of Kindred society — as, indeed, it already has.
Clan Structure
Although organizing vampires is much like herd-
ing predatory beasts, the Assamites maintained for 
millennia a hierarchy unsurpassed by any clan save 
the Tremere (and some would claim that the Warlocks 
cheated by coming into the vampiric world with an 
organization already in place). This structure has bro-
ken down under the strain of recent events, but both 
of the clan’s major factions maintain enough of it that 
it is still worthy of examination.
As a qualifier, the “rule” of Alamut is far from ab-
solute, even given the potency of the elders who reside 
there. Many Assamites have received enough instruction 
and trust from their sires and comrades that they feel a 
certain bond of loyalty to the clan. Even if they don’t 
personally place too much belief in whatever version 
of history they’ve received, the reception they garner 
from other Cainites tends to be harsh enough that clan-
mates look like the best option for companionship, and 
association tends to lead to common agendas despite 
efforts to remain independent. Just as many, however, 
shrug and ignore their “superiors” when they hear about 
the latest edicts from the Mountain. Ironically enough, 
ur-Shulgi’s efforts to unify the clan may be doing so in 
a most unplanned manner, as more and more of these 
nearly dispossessed individuals receive news of recent 
events and seek shelter with one faction or another.
Methods
The elders of the Assamite clan use several methods 
to keep their underlings at least loosely connected and 
vaguely focused. The first is blood magic, without which 
rapid long-distance communication was impossible un-
til the modern era. With a devoted caste of sorcerers, 
the leaders at Alamut were always able to disseminate 
information and instructions to the clan within a few 
nights — an invaluable tool for keeping subordinates 
reminded of their duties. With the advent of radio and 
later developments, scrying and sending became some-
what obsolete, though Assamite sorcery is still less prone 
to interception than a cellular phone conversation.
An equally important, and much more subtle, 
method of maintaining focus is a sense of superiority. 
Most Assamites who have the opportunity for lengthy 
conversations with other clan members at least know 
Haqim’s Laws and the basics of their line’s history. The 
What’s In a Name?
This book refers to the Assamites by several 
names, seemingly interchangeably. To avoid argu-
ments over Old Clan Assamites and True Children 
of Haqim and the like, we’ll just come out and say it:
The Assamites are the same thing as the Children 
of Haqim (or the Sons of Haqim, the Daughters of 
Haqim, or Haqim’s Children). All three castes (war-
riors, viziers, and sorcerers) are equally Assamites. 
Assamites of all political affiliations or lack thereof 
(loyalists, schismatics, antitribu and dispossessed) are 
equally Assamites, too.
So why all the different names?
The difference between “Assamites” and 
“Children of Haqim” is a matter of linguistics and 
perspective. The clan has always referred to itself as 
the Children of Haqim (or various permutations on 
that name). The Assamite name probably came into 
being a few centuries before the Crusades due to other 
Cainites mishearing or mispronouncing “Children of 
Haqim” in Arabic. The only members of the clan who 
refer to themselves as Assamites are either speaking 
to non-Assamites or never received an extended 
introduction to their Cainite culture from a Child 
of Haqim sire. Among their siblings, all Children of 
Haqim refer to themselves by that name or a variation 
of it, never by the outsiders’ term for them.
For the purposes of this book, the two names are 
interchangeable. However, we usually refer to the 
clan as “Assamites” when taking a neutral perspective 
and “Children of Haqim” when discussing matters 
from the clan’s own point of view.
themselves to have escaped the social roles under which 
their respective clans labor. Some of its most vocal pro-
ponents are Ravnos and Gangrel, who, unsurprisingly, 
favor the idea of Cainite adaptation to new challenges, 
and several Caitiff, who use it to support their claims 
that uniqueness is to a vampire’s benefit. Strangely, 
no Assamites are known to have spoken on the issue. 
Perhaps this is not so surprising when one considers the 
matter from the clan’s own self-reliant perspective. The 
Children of Haqim simply are — though in the Final 
Nights, even this long-held tenet wears thin.
Where the Assamites Are 
Tonight
With the coming of the Final Nights, the Assamite 
clan is in a state of flux. Recent developments have 
shattered the Cainite world’s preconceived notions of 
what Assamites are, and many of the clan’s own long-
held beliefs are in disarray. As much as a third of the 
Assamite population has petitioned for membership in, 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
33
traditional emphasis on this story has always been, “We 
were asked to stand in judgement, and the other clans 
walked off and left us, so they have no right to complain 
if we still do it.” The implication here is that, because 
the other clans’ founders asked Haqim to create the 
judges, all the Antediluvians approve of the Assamites’ 
actions — and Caine never stepped in to stop it. That’s a 
powerful argument for continuing to judge and punish 
other Kindred, even if those other Kindred themselves 
don’t want to be judged and punished. Brainwashing 
and propaganda don’t even have to be overt — the best 
coercion is that which has a grain of truth at its heart.
Finally, many Assamites have an “us or them” men-
tality that only a few other Kindred groups can match. 
History shows many reasons for the Assamites and the 
rest of Caine’s descendants to have an adversarial re-
lationship, and some fault undoubtedly lies with both 
sides. Of course, most Assamites won’t admit that their 
clan was in the wrong all that much — after all, it was 
the fault of the Camarilla or the Setites or the Ravnos 
or the convenient scapegoat of the night. All blame 
aside, though, the clan has always been aware that a 
fellow Assamite is several orders of magnitude more 
likely to be predisposed (or at least neutral) toward her 
than any other vampire. In the modern nights, though, 
this is no longer a certainty or even a strong possibility.
Very few Assamites use the blood bond to command 
loyalty from their childer. Most of the clan views the 
bond as a shameful form of punishment, “suitable for 
goats and liars,” only to be used when a neonate has 
repeatedly demonstrated that he is not to be trusted with 
free will. The relative rarity of Dominate and Presence 
in the clan make use of these measures similarly scarce. 
However, “scarce” is not “unheard of.”
Haqim
The clan hierarchy begins, of course, with the 
Cainite from whom his descendants take their collec-
tive name: Haqim, the Assamite Antediluvian. Unlike 
those of many clan founders, Haqim’s name — and even 
his appearance — are well-documented (though no one 
believes that Haqim is the name he bore at birth). His 
last recorded appearance was in A.D. 121 in the British 
Isles, though the clan catalogues at least one “Haqim 
sighting” a decade. Over the centuries since, several 
high-ranking clan members claim to have received direct 
communication from him, ur-Shulgi being only the latest.
In theory, the Children of Haqim are still one 
family, with Haqim as their patriarch. In practice, 
Haqim is far more myth than reality to most modern 
members of the clan. Regardless of illuminations and 
original copies of writings, the Ancestor just isn’t real 
to those whose grandsires never even met him. On the 
other hand, many active members of his brood claim 
personal acquaintanceship with Haqim — al-Ashrad 
and ur-Shulgi among them — enough that any neonate 
who has both the curiosity and the courage can hear 
several firsthand accounts of him.
With the exception of the tales told by members of 
the ultraconservative Web of Knives and other Path of 
Blood hard-liners, most accounts portray Haqim as a man 
who had grown weary of conflict well before he settled in 
the Second City. He caught the attention of a member 
of the Second Generation for his dedication, strength of 
will and uncompromising code of ethics. An academic 
by nature if not by skill, he only reluctantly accepted the 
mantle of authority that his fellow members of the Third 
Generation thrust upon him. However, once he bent to 
their will, he was determined to carry out their requests to 
the best of his ability. Some Kindred scholars theorize that 
this determination extended to a “whether they want it 
or not” mentality, and certainly some of Haqim’s recorded 
actions bear this out. The most noteworthy example of 
him asserting his authority to the fullest possible extent 
was the formation of the sorcerer caste as demon-hunters, 
directly defying Saulot’s protestations that the Salubri 
warriors needed neither competition nor assistance.
Haqim’s relations with the other Antediluvians has 
been characterized in legend as tense, a likely state of af-
fairs considering that the other Ancients gave him what 
amounted to a charter to freely enforce his own code of 
civility on their descendants. Several of his writings speak 
well of the Brujah, Gangrel and Ravnos founders, and on 
one half-translated tablet he seems to express his regret 
that he and Saulot never repaired their kinship after the 
conflicts that involved infernal cults. He had little respect 
for the founders of the Nosferatu and Toreador clans, and 
granted a wary regard to the Ventrue progenitor.
Toward his own descendants, Haqim was as harsh 
as he was to other Cainites. However, only the most 
extreme accounts speak of him as an unfair master. He 
rewarded success well and only punished failure when 
it came as a result of laziness or foolishness. If he had 
a fatal flaw, it was a lack of patience. Many of his long 
disappearances over the millennia seem to stem from 
frustration with squabbling among his childer. His 
current absence is alarmingly long, even by immortal 
standards, though some believe that he has already 
returned to the clan, watching and evaluating them 
nightly. This theory has adherents on all sides of the 
Schism that plagues the clan.
The Eldest
The office of Eldest began in the Second City as 
an unofficial honor. When Haqim left for his frequent 
journeys, he would place one of his childer in charge 
of the affairs of his home. After the Children of Haqim 
founded Alamut, the position became a formal one. The 


Clanbook: Assamite
34
Eldest (colloquially known as “the Old Man” even dur-
ing the two occasions when a female held the position) 
was the oldest childe of Haqim interested in directing 
the clan in the Ancestor’s absence. During those times 
when no fourth-generation Child was available to take 
the Black Throne, the du’at chose one of their number 
as Eldest, with the two council members who did not 
become Eldest choosing the Eldest’s replacement. The 
Eldest can be deposed by a unanimous challenge from 
all three du’at members, though this has happened only 
once in the clan’s recorded history.
As defined, the Eldest is the supreme leader of the 
Assamites, answerable only to Haqim. Throughout the 
centuries, though, most have recognized the impossibil-
ity of exerting “control” over all their “subjects.” Only 
a few have tried to bring the dispossessed to heel, and 
these met with universally dismal ends.
The last Eldest was Jamal, a warrior who held the 
Black Throne from 1494 to 1998. When ur-Shulgi 
arose, the ancient chose to test the Children’s loyalty 
from the top down. Ur-Shulgi claims that Jamal refused 
to renounce Allah and was thus “sent… to meet his 
young god.” Jamal was the first Assamite to die in such 
a fashion, and many schismatic warriors consider him a 
martyr. Ur-Shulgi refuses to take the mantle of Eldest, 
referring to Haqim himself by that title.
The Du’at
The du’at council is traditionally the assembly of 
the heads of the three Assamite castes: the Caliph of 
the warriors, the Vizier of the viziers, and the Amr of 
the sorcerers. It is the clan’s observed authority on mat-
ters of policy. Alamut’s records put the formation of the 
du’at as a formal body at approximately 2000 B.C. The 
du’at was the Eldest’s closest circle of advisors, though 
council members often drew information from their 
subordinate specialists. The council also collectively 
arbitrated crosscaste disputes that threatened the stabil-
ity of the Children as a whole.
With the destruction of one member and the 
subsequent departure of the other two, it is unlikely 
that a du’at will be re-formed in the foreseeable future. 
Al-Ashrad currently seeks to restructure his followers 
into an organization more palatable to the Camarilla, 
and secret clan councils have no place in such a body. 
Ur-Shulgi refuses to acknowledge a new Caliph, Amr or 
Vizier among the loyalists, apparently preferring to allow 
its followers to sort themselves out without its guidance.
The Caliph
The warrior caste’s leader is known as the Caliph. 
He is, in theory, the greatest combatant among the 
Children of Haqim, though few Caliphs have been 
masters of every form of combat. The Caliph’s primary 
duties are to advise the Eldest on matters that pertain 
to the defense of the Children as a whole and to guide 
the warrior caste in its defense of the clan, its holdings 
and its mortal subjects (when the Assamites had mortal 
subjects, at any rate). Additionally, should a trial by 
single combat arise whose outcome affects the entire 
clan, the Caliph is the Cainite who fights on the Chil-
dren’s behalf. No records of such an event exist, though 
the fact that this is the duty of the Caliph suggests that 
such circumstances arose at least once before.
In the abstract, these duties make the Caliph the 
leader of the largest organized body of immortal soldiers 
and assassins in the world. In reality, the Caliph is simply 
the individual holding the leash of a clan of predators 
who may or may not obey any particular suggestion he 
gives them. Wise Caliphs choose to guide rather than 
command, lest those predators turn on the leash-holder.
According to warrior caste tradition, any warrior 
who feels that the current Caliph is failing to discharge 
his duties as the foremost defender of the Children of 
Haqim may challenge the Caliph to a duel for leadership. 
However, the Caliph has the right to choose whether the 
challenge will be one of unarmed combat, armed combat, 
tactical leadership or even strategic military command. 
Some Black Hand analysts believe that the tank battles of 
the 1972 Arab-Israeli War had some role in the last chal-
lenge to the Caliphate, though this theory is unproven.
If the current Caliph is defeated, he is expected to 
submit to ritual diablerie at the fangs of his challenger. 
Some newly minted Caliphs have allowed their predeces-
sors the option of suicide by facing the rising sun from the 
side of the mountain that houses Alamut. Challengers 
who meet defeat have always been consumed by the 
Caliph, and each of their descendants is given the choice 
of destruction or exile. This ensures that challenges do 
not come frivolously, as the childer of a challenger have 
been known to pull him down themselves rather than 
risk the consequences of a failed challenge.
Currently, the position of Caliph is open following 
ur-Shulgi’s destruction of the previous holder, and no 
one has yet stepped forward to claim it. However, several 
loyalist warriors have tentatively advanced themselves 
as possible claimants, and it seems to only be a matter 
of time before actual conflict erupts.
The Vizier
The leader of the vizier caste (also known as the 
“scholar caste”) goes by the title of Vizier. This may seem 
a confusing arrangement to outsiders, but the viziers are 
accustomed to it, usually applying a subtle emphasis 
to “the” when referring to the Vizier. The Vizier is the 
foremost academician among the viziers and serves as 
the conduit for information that the Eldest needs from 
the caste. As the viziers’ studies range from theology to 
particle physics, this is a weighty responsibility indeed. 
Realistically, the Eldest rarely expects the Vizier to have 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
35
comprehensive knowledge of every single item of data 
to which the viziers have access, but he must at least be 
capable of identifying the caste’s experts and gleaning 
from them information of greatest benefit to the Eldest.
As with the Caliph, the Vizier’s actual responsibili-
ties differ from his ideal ones. The loose disorganization 
of the viziers more closely resembles a network of aca-
demic contacts than a formal research collective, and 
any given vizier may or may not stay in contact with 
his brethren and superiors for any number of reasons. 
The Vizier often finds himself having to coordinate 
correspondence (or forcing correspondence to occur) 
between widely scattered individuals who feel the need 
to pay lip service to the idea of clan and caste loyalty 
only when they need something from their brethren.
Traditionally, the viziers elect the Vizier in a simple 
majority vote every 63 years. No process exists for for-
mally declaring candidates, but individuals who believe 
they will be able to best advise the Eldest during the 
next six decades usually come forward a year or two 
before the election.
The vizier members of the Council of Scrolls (see be-
low) tabulate the votes on every seventh winter solstice 
(though some more progressive members of the council 
would like to convene the group more frequently). Any 
member of the caste is eligible to vote if he can come 
to Alamut in person or send a proxy (usually a trusted 
ghoul or servant) within the six months immediately 
before the election. Until the most recent election, this 
was a grand gathering of the caste (and a good way for 
the Eldest and the du’at to gauge loyalties by counting 
absent faces) that filled Alamut for a month prior to 
the election, but the nascent phenomenon of air travel 
eroded this tradition in 1927. Of the viziers who even 
bothered to vote at the 1990 election, few stayed at 
Alamut for more than three nights.
The current Vizier is Tegyrius, an ancient legal 
expert who claims to have marched with Alexander 
the Great’s armies in his mortal days and later watched 
as Emperor Justinian codified Roman law. He has held 
the title of Vizier for three consecutive terms, as well 
as one in the mid-14th century. Tegyrius opposed 
ur-Shulgi’s usurpation of the Black Throne on the 
grounds that it did not follow the proper precedents 
for a transition of Eldests. He later followed al-Ashrad 
into exile, reportedly surprised that ur-Shulgi had not 
yet destroyed him. His current agenda and location are 
unknown. Some rumors have placed him at the World 
Court in the Netherlands, while others hint at a bid 
for full schismatic acceptance in the Camarilla and an 
appointment as the first Assamite Justicar.
The Amr
The Amr is the leader of the sorcerer caste. Like his 
subordinates, he often walks a middle path between the 


Clanbook: Assamite
36
duties of the Caliph and those of the Vizier. Traditionally, 
the Amr’s primary responsibility is to advise the Eldest 
on all matters relating to magic and the supernatural, 
including the affairs of and the threats presented by other 
Cainites. This somewhat vague definition means that 
he must not only deal with magical threats to Haqim’s 
legacy but also with the realm of magical study in gen-
eral. Additionally, the Amr is generally recognized as 
the most powerful sorcerer in the caste and thus the 
most powerful sorcerer in the world (though the latter 
distinction is more rhetorical than quantifiable).
Due to the prevalence of forms of magical com-
munication among the sorcerers, the Amr has a greater 
ability to issue commands directly to his caste than 
his counterparts do. In practice, he rarely exercises 
this power, as the sorcerers are only marginally less 
independent than the warriors or viziers. However, on 
those infrequent occasions when the Amr does give an 
order rather than a polite suggestion, wise sorcerers do 
not hesitate to obey.
After the Treaty of Tyre, one of the last acts of 
the then-Eldest was to place the Amr in charge of the 
clanwide effort to break the Tremere curse. For most 
of the past 500 years, this has occupied much of the 
Amr’s attention, though he and his assistants have still 
maintained the magical defenses of Alamut and played 
an intricate game of move and countermove against the 
Tremere and their infernal servants.
Traditionally, the Amr is re-selected every year on the 
night of the vernal equinox. Every sorcerer who is present 
at Alamut participates in a night-long ritual divination 
that reveals the identity of the sorcerer who is best suited 
to lead his brethren for the next cycle of the stars.
Since A.D. 120, the name al-Ashrad has been 
synonymous with the title of Amr. There has been no 
other for close to two millennia, and many Assamites 
cannot conceive of the greatest magician in the world 
being ousted from the position that he himself defined.
The Silsila
The silsila, otherwise known as shakari or the Keepers 
of the Blood, were once the direct subordinates of the 
du’at. Tonight, though, they fulfil their role under ur-
Shulgi’s fanatical supervision. The spiritual elite of the 
Children, this small warrior priesthood is composed of 
those whom the du’at and the Eldest feel are the truest 
adherents to Haqim’s teachings. Spiritually, their duties 
are the advancement of Haqim’s Laws (and, depend-
ing on Alamut’s political climate, the Path of Blood). 
However, they are also the keepers of Alamut’s library 
and museum and the core of its defenses should the 
Mountain ever come under assault.
A sizeable portion of the silsila’s score of members 
declared schismatic loyalty; none are known to have 
survived to the present night in the face of fierce loyalist 
attacks. The rest, all Path of Blood adherents, stood 
firmly behind ur-Shulgi and continue their steward-
ship of Alamut to the present night. Most of these 
are elders in both generation and age (in the terms of 
the Blood, estimated to be at least 9th generation and 
400 years of age) and have reached a profound level 
of enlightenment as paragons of the Path of Blood. 
Their composition reflects the distribution of the castes 
within Alamut: Warriors make up the vast majority 
of the silsila, with a handful of sorcerers and only one 
(presumed) vizier member.
Lesser Offices
The Assamites have never formally defined any 
positions aside from the Eldest, the du’at, and the silsila. 
However, the warriors have evolved a series of ranks that 
represent an individual’s standing within the caste, and 
the sorcerers and viziers have cooperatively maintained an 
academic and professional ranking scheme for centuries.
Prestige Within the Warrior Caste
The warrior caste has little use for talent that cannot 
be demonstrated. Clear-cut achievements, whether they 
be cleanly executed contracts or expertly forged swords, 
are the fastest route to social and political advancement. 
Martial success is the most obvious such path, though 
no few warriors have gained considerable renown for 
their supporting contributions as tacticians, intelligence 
analysts and craftsmen. In addition to general reputa-
tion, a gradual progression of peer groups occurs within 
the warrior caste wherein advancement is regulated by 
age, experience and acclaim. These have undergone 
several revisions in definition and label throughout the 
clan’s history. The current classifications are derived 
from those used by the original mortal Assassin sect; it 
is unknown whether they were adopted out of respect 
or originated as a bitter jest that later gained full use.
Fida’i
Warriors who are new to the blood are known as 
fida’i, which roughly translates as “devotee.” This signifies 
that the neonate has the will to serve Haqim, if not the 
skills. Fida’i remain as such until they have demonstrated 
that they are capable of carrying out the occasional 
requests of Alamut. Traditionally, this is at the end of 
a period of intensive training in both mundane skills 
and vampiric existence, though some individuals have 
received the Blood for acts that placed them above the 
fida’i even before the Embrace. Calling a warrior fida’i 
after he has been recognized as holding a higher station 
within the caste is moderately insulting, as it implies that 
he is incapable of making his own contributions to the 
Children and the caste. The closest equivalent to fida’i 
status is that of an unreleased childe in the Camarilla 
or a Sabbat “shovelhead” who has yet to prove herself.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
37
Rafiq
Any warrior who has progressed past fida’i status 
is known as a rafiq (literally “comrade”). A rafiq has 
proven that he is capable of taking care of himself 
in the outside world and fulfilling the duties that his 
superiors assign him. Some warriors use rafiq to refer 
to any esteemed clan member, though many shy away 
from acknowledging sorcerers or viziers as rafiq. More 
commonly, the warriors refer to all warriors as rafiq, thus 
implying that fida’i are not truly warriors.
Da’i
The da’is are a subset of the rafiq. Any warrior who 
is sufficiently versed in a religion to be considered an 
ordained priest, or that religion’s version thereof, is a da’i 
(literally “summoner” or “missionary”). Most da’is are 
Muslim, though no few da’is hail from other religions. 
Da’i also refers to any rafiq who has advanced sufficiently 
far along an alternate road of morality and belief to be 
capable of teaching it to others (in game terms, a rat-
ing of 7 or more in a Path of Enlightenment). In the 
modern nights, this latter usage almost always refers to 
strict Path of Blood adherents.
Ace
This Westernized term has gained more acceptance 
than the caste’s elders would like in the past half-century. 
When used to refer to a rafiq, an ace is a warrior who has 
killed five or more non-Assamite vampires of equal or 
greater strength. The term is largely used by European and 
American rafiq and by those who wish to emulate them, 
though it is also common among the Assamite antitribu.
For formal occasions, some aces commission tat-
toos to present their kill records (though the effort 
involved in creating tattoos that will only fade by the 
next morning prohibits the use of these markings in 
nightly unlife). The current fashion tends toward rows 
of clan sigils corresponding to the heritage of each 
victim, with black circles denoting fallen foes whose 
lineage was unknown. More casual aces remain content 
with a clothing, jewelry or armament that bears their 
body counts, such as a leather jacket with a series of 
stenciled “kill flags” or a ceremonial scimitar with the 
names of foes etched into the flat of the blade. At the 
other extreme, some truly intense individuals use a 
scalpel and Baal’s Caress to produce ritual scarification 
in lieu of tattoos.
Prestige Within the Sorcerer  
and Vizier Castes
Although the sorcerers are primarily blood magi-
cians, their long association with the viziers has led them 
to value expertise in areas other than the arcane. The 
two castes collectively maintain the Council of Scrolls, 
an administrative and academic body that evaluates the 
skills of would-be scholars and makes sincere (if sporadic) 
attempts to standardize new knowledge as it becomes 


Clanbook: Assamite
38
available to the clan. This latter task is nigh impos-
sible, given the widely varying cultures from which the 
Children of Haqim draw members, but the council has 
managed to stonewall certain edicts over the centuries. 
For example, the current linguistic standards for clan 
records state that Latin, Arabic, English, Swahili and 
Sanskrit are the “approved” languages for blood magic. 
Any newly discovered ritual must be translated into at 
least two of these tongues before the initial researchers 
may teach it to any other clan member. 
The council’s primary function, however, is to gauge 
the progress of sorcerers and viziers in their respective 
fields of study. The benchmarks that the two castes use 
are roughly equivalent, so the same group evaluates 
aspirants to the titles of either caste. The current West-
ernized forms of address and recognition were adopted 
in the late 18th century, despite (or perhaps because 
of) extensive protests from the warriors.
It should be noted that many sorcerers and viziers 
could have cared less what the council thought of their 
achievements. Many, however, at least publicly honored 
its decisions and edicts in order to gain the approval of 
their elders. With the Schism, the council is broken, 
and neither side seems likely to re-convene it in the near 
future — at least, not in any form that the opposition 
would recognize as legitimate.
Aspirant
All sorcerers and viziers are considered aspirants 
until they achieve actual recognition. In most cases, 
“aspirant” is used as a neutral form of address when an 
elder does not know — or chooses not to acknowledge 
— a neonate’s name (“So, aspirant, what have you 
learned from this night’s misadventure?”).
Associate
An associate has shown himself capable of exerting 
sufficient discipline and dedication to achieve the mortal 
equivalent of a doctoral degree in his chosen field. A 
blood magician must have mastered all but the most 
advanced demands of his primary path (Level Four and 
at least two Level Four rituals), while an academic must 
be capable of passing a formal examination at a university 
selected by his elders (a rating of 4 in the Ability that is 
the character’s primary field of study, with appropriate 
specialties, should they be used in the chronicle, pref-
erably with ratings of 3 in two or more other Abilities 
that directly complement the primary one).
Master
A master is just that: a sorcerer or vizier who has 
mastered her selected pursuit. She must demonstrate full 
proficiency with the highest levels of that art or study, 
as well as show that she is capable of thinking critically, 
not just reciting from rote memory, such as by publishing 
a book about her field of study or creating a heretofore 
unknown ritual. To attain this rank and those above it, a 
would-be master must present the council with tangible 
proof of her achievements (the Assamite equivalent of 
a doctoral thesis, though occasionally defended with a 
blade as well as rhetoric).
Distinguished Master
A distinguished master has proven that she is capable 
of more than overspecialization by extending her expertise 
outside of her primary area of focus. For blood magicians, 
this entails full mastery of two Assamite Sorcery paths 
(the primary path and one other, each at Level Five). 
For more traditional scholars, the requirement involves 
comprehensive knowledge of both the primary area of 
study and one related but independent field (two Abili-
ties related to the character’s primary area of study with a 
rating of 5 in each, preferably with several supplementary 
ones with scores of 3 or better).
Full Master
A full master has reached the pinnacle of achievement 
in his chosen field of study and is recognized as being the 
equal of any authority on the planet (save for those elder 
Cainites whose ability exceeds that of any lesser being by 
incalculable amounts). For a blood magician, this requires 
complete mastery of the individual’s chosen primary 
path, at least three other paths and expansive knowledge 
of rituals. For an individual specializing in nonmagical 
studies, this likewise requires complete knowledge, both 
theoretical and practical, of the primary declared area of 
study and at least three related but separate fields.
Emeritus
Appended to any title of master or greater (“Distin-
guished Master Emeritus”), this title denotes a Master who 
has withdrawn from active participation in clan affairs 
but whose expertise is still acknowledged and respected. 
Most often in the Final Nights, this is used to mark an 
elder who has entered torpor. More colloquially, it can also 
refer to a sorcerer or vizier who has declared dispossessed 
status by actively refusing to choose a side in the Schism.
The Castes
As noted earlier, the Assamite clan has a hereditary 
structure unlike any other in the modern Cainite world. 
The unified clan consists of three “castes,” or “sub-clans,” 
each sharing certain common characteristics both within 
its own body and with the other two castes. For example, 
the lessons of Quietus come naturally to members of 
all three castes, though each one has its own full set of 
“instinctive” Disciplines, of which Quietus is but one. 
All Assamites experience an odd darkening of the skin 
with age, but the auras of each caste’s members shift in 
radically different manners after the Embrace. The castes 
may be considered separate bloodlines for the purposes of 
sire-childe relations — a warrior will always sire warrior 
childer, and a vizier will always beget viziers — but all 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
39
The Council of Scrolls
The combined assembly of viziers and sorcerers 
has no direct equivalent in any other society, mortal 
or Cainite. Its exact duties and powers change with 
the passing of time but to date have always included 
the approval of new blood magic paths and rituals 
for widespread use, as well as review and recognition 
of new scientific developments to be adopted by the 
clan. After the Tremere curse, the council’s foremost 
goal became the breaking of that ritual.
The council traditionally consisted of 15 seats, 
each held by the clan’s foremost authority on that 
seat’s area of knowledge (only rarely has any less than a 
Distinguished Master held a council seat). The Eldest 
and the du’at were barred from council membership 
due to the potential for conflicts of interest, though 
many Amrs and Viziers were once council members 
— or may be again. Warriors were once technically 
welcome to sit on the council, though more than a 
single warrior councilor has never claimed a seat at 
any one time.
With the Schism, the council, like so many other 
bastions of Assamite unity, shattered. Its members 
split between loyalist and schismatic support, with 
at least one dying by ur-Shulgi’s hand for her part in 
the Schism. Neither faction has announced a desire 
to re-form the council, though it is surely not far from 
al-Ashrad’s thoughts.
Seats and Councilors
The following list summarizes the realms of ex-
pertise of each seat and that seat’s holder in the nights 
immediately before the Schism, as well as the current 
disposition (if known) of each former councilor.
The Seat of the Sum: Mathematics and related 
sciences, including cryptography. Last held by vizier 
David Wendt, current loyalty and status unknown.
The Seat of Copper and Lightning (formerly the 
Seat of the Forge): Electricity and its subsequent 
daughter sciences, including computers. Last held by 
sorcerer Sarah Schneier, whom ur-Shulgi destroyed 
for her role in initiating the Schism.
The Seat of Mirrors: Information gathering and 
transference, including scrying, surveillance and 
three castes are Assamites. Their vitae is indistinguish-
able except under the most acute observation.
Arguably, the Assamites have no one caste that is 
“more Assamite” or “more Haqim’s” than the others, 
at least in matters of descent. All three castes have had 
multiple members of the Fourth Generation who were 
sired by Haqim during the era of the Second City and 
perhaps afterward. Whatever the factors were that first 
defined the castes, they arose during that time, perhaps 
due to differences between Haqim’s broods. All As-
samites are childer of their Ancestor, born of his heart 
and cursed with his will.
From a blood-magic perspective, the castes are 
similar enough that a sufficiently powerful effect di-
rected at one will affect the others. The Tremere curse 
worked on this principle, banning all Assamites from 
drinking non-Assamite Cainite vitae. By contrast, the 
Baali curse laid in the 7th century specifically targeted 
telecommunications. Still claimed by schismatic vizier 
Abid bin Haji.
The Seat of Storms: Natural sciences. Last held by 
sorcerer Badr Alkhaiwani, current loyalty and status 
unknown.
The Seat of the Book: Theology and philosophy, spe-
cifically excluding systems of belief that are exclusive 
to Cainites. Still claimed by sorcerer Hedeyat al-Nasir 
of the silsila.
The Seat of Fire and Steel: Weapons technology. Vacant 
since warrior Enrique Salazar disappeared in 1991 while 
evaluating American military forces in Iraq.
The Seat of Wheel, Wing and Oar: Transportation 
technology. Last held by vizier Kasparas Sikhorsky, 
believed to be in torpor following a duel with sorcerer 
Jayakar Dristi Boparai.
The Seat of Glass and Smoke: Chemistry and alchemy. 
Last held by warrior Aurora White, believed to have 
declared herself dispossessed; current whereabouts 
unknown.
The Seat of Mist: Spiritualism, necromancy and other 
studies of the immaterial world. Last held by loyalist 
sorcerer Qadir ul-Ghani.
The Seat of Gold: Economics and mercantile interests. 
Last held by vizier Azita Hisami, currently the dispos-
sessed advisor to the Toreador of Saudi Arabia.
The Seat of Dust and Bone: Archaeology and ancient 
history. Last held by vizier Arishima Hisato, destroyed 
by ur-Shulgi for unknown reasons.
The Seat of Wind and Stone: Mortal politics, society 
and recent (less than 1000 years) history. Last held 
by vizier Fikriyya al-Jurr, destroyed by ur-Shulgi for 
unknown reasons.
The Seat of Tongues: Linguistics. Last held by loyal-
ist sorcerer Amaravati, childe and former protégé of 
al-Ashrad.
The Seat of Stars: Astronomy, astrology and related 
fields, most recently expanded to include space travel. 
Last held by sorcerer Jayakar Dristi Boparai, believed 
destroyed in a duel with vizier Kasparas Sikhorsky.
The Seat of Flesh: Medicine. Last held by vizier Dmitri 
Borodin, believed dispossessed, last seen in Venice.


Clanbook: Assamite
40
the warrior caste, but spilled over to some sorcerers and 
viziers, apparently at random.
The Darkening
All Assamites do indeed grow darker as they age, 
quite unlike other Cainites, who become progressively 
more pallid over the years. Several Assamites have 
charted the rate of this shift over the millennia. Their 
observations have produced the following guidelines:
• Assamites experience the initial post-Embrace 
pallor that other Cainites undergo for approximately 
two to five years, after which their skin returns to its 
mortal coloration.
• Darkening begins between 50 and 100 years after 
the Embrace and proceeds at a steady rate until the 
individual’s skin is obsidian black and slightly shiny. 
This stage is reached at around the first millennium of 
unlife. With access to the proper reference materials, it 
may be possible to determine an Assamite’s age to within 
50 years by indexing his skin’s coloration and luster. 
• Frequent diablerie measurably speeds the process, 
rendering the normal dating procedures ineffective.
No Assamite has satisfactorily explained why al-
Ashrad, alone of the Children of Haqim, has pale white 
skin. The Amr himself has offered no hints.
Warriors
For a thousand years and more, the warrior caste 
was the Assamite clan, at least to the rest of the Cainite 
world. This unchallenged supremacy led the warriors 
to political ascendance within the clan. Their actions 
controlled the manner in which members of other clans 
treated Assamites, and their role as defenders of the clan 
gave them great leverage in determining how members of 
the other castes interacted with the rest of the world. In 
time, the warriors came to view themselves as the only 
true Children of Haqim, and thus his only real heirs.
Recent events have shaken the warrior caste’s resolve 
and forced many warriors to question their shared self-
image. The revelation of the warriors’ original role as 
judges of their peers, a mere offshoot of Haqim’s “true” first 
brood, has caused an upheaval of the sort unseen in the 
warriors’ ranks since the time of Mohammed. Still, some 
factors of the caste’s existence have remained constant.
The warriors traditionally make up the Children’s 
most visibly active caste. Their role within the clan is 
that of the defender, both of their clanmates and Haqim’s 
legacy of justice. As Cainites scattered across the Western 
world, the warriors gradually became mercenaries, their 
judicial role abandoned and forgotten with the fall of 
the Second City. Some applied their martial skills for 
personal gain. More worked to secure the Middle East 
against the influence of other Cainites, with a startling 
(though never total) degree of success. The caste’s mer-
cenary endeavors gave birth to the tradition of the tithe, 
in which a warrior who was paid for his services gave a 
portion of this payment to his sire in order to enrich the 
clan as a whole and to honor the individual who trained 
him and judged him with undeath.
In the modern nights, few Cainites dispute the as-
sertion that the Assamite warrior caste collectively holds 
one of the most fearsome assemblages of fighters on the 
face of the planet. Indeed, the warriors are perhaps the 
only Cainite line whose primary focus is the study of 
the application of violence. The predatory nature of the 
Beast and the violence inherent to the World of Dark-
ness ensure that any vampire with more than a year of 
unlife has almost certainly been in (or run from) a fight. 
However, most Kindred don’t make an organized study 
of martial professions until they see an imminent need 
for it. The Assamite warriors, by comparison, are as close 
to “professional killers” as vampires can get — at least, 
in their own ideal.
This is not to say that the warriors are an organized 
army, ready to sweep forth from the Mountain in a bloody 
tide edged with Damascene steel and wipe all other Cainite 
life from the earth. Too many differences of opinion 
divide the caste for a unified campaign to be successful. 
The Arab traditionalists loathe the European reformers, 
the Path of Blood adherents scoff at the weaklings who 
cling to Humanity, the bold swordsmen denigrate the 
cowardly riflemen, and the aloof strategists sneer at the 
knuckle-dragging line troopers. Indeed, only Haqim’s 
Laws seem to keep the caste from devouring itself in a 
fratricidal frenzy.
Despite the name, not every member of the warrior 
caste is a warrior. Even though it is more a loose organiza-
tion of individuals with vaguely related skills, the caste 
does (in theory) serve a somewhat universal purpose 
as the sword and shield of the Children of Haqim. For 
every assassin who stalks the nights in search of Cainite 
prey, a master swordsmith is forging blades in the depths 
of Alamut. For every tactician who advises a desperate 
prince in a defense against the Sabbat, an intelligence 
analyst is whispering advice over a satellite channel. And 
for every warrior who receives the Blood for his martial 
prowess, another gains immortality whose inept posturing 
is a thin excuse for the preservation of a pretty face. In 
short, the warriors are no more elite or monomaniacal in 
their Embracing habits than any other Cainites, though 
they tend to hide the fact better than most.
In the Final Nights, the warriors’ agendas are more 
ill-defined than ever before. The Schism that now splits 
the clan has forced many to define loyalties that previously 
needed no definition. Some strike out at other Cainites 
in blood-maddened rage. Some fight for self-control and 
attempt to peacefully coexist with their former enemies. 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
41
Some renew vows of allegiance to their blood-soaked gods. Some walk no roads but the ones they map for themselves.
Nickname: Assassins
Sect: Approximately one in five warriors belong to the Sabbat, where they are known as the Assamite antitribu. 
An equal portion of the caste chose to follow al-Ashrad when he made his bid for alliance with the Camarilla. 
The remaining warriors remain loyal to ur-Shulgi and Alamut, and are therefore independent of sect allegiance. 
This does not, of course, count those dispossessed warriors who maintain no loyalty to any faction of the clan.
Appearance: Warriors usually dress in simple yet elegant attire in which they can either blend in or fight as 
needed. Among the wealthier and more modern members, fine fabrics have become more common. Most warriors 
are physically fit. An overweight or elderly warrior is either deceptively dangerous or proficient at some noncombat 
occupation that the caste found indispensable at the time of his Embrace.
Haven: Regardless of sect or Schism, most warriors keep similar ha-
vens. These locations tend to be isolated and easily defensible, with 
security measures ranging from German shepherds to German machine 
guns. When traveling, warriors tend to arrange temporary havens 
near major transportation channels, the better to make a quick exit.
Background: Many warriors are males of African or Middle 
Eastern descent, though this is more of a generalization than a rule 
and should not be taken to imply that all warriors fit that profile. 
Most come from some profession dealing with the application of 
force or personal violence in one form or another: terrorists, soldiers, 
police and hit men are all likely prospects. However, the caste 
also Embraces professionals in related or generally useful 
fields: Photographic intelligence interpreters, smugglers, 
gunsmiths and strategists are all respected non-
combatant members of the warriors.
Character Creation: Most warriors 
are fairly straightforward in personality, 
with similar Natures and Demeanors — unless 
they’re used to working undercover, in which 
case anything goes. Physical Attributes are usually 
a primary concern, though the Children have no use 
for warriors who can’t think on their feet; Mental Attributes 
are especially valued for strategists and other leaders. The caste 
values Talents and Skills 
equally. A war-
rior who isn’t at 
least competent 
in one form of 
combat is most 
likely a support spe-
cialist whom the caste considered indispensable. 
Many warriors have Mentors and a variety of 
Contacts in their line of work. Generation 
is also common, slightly more so among 
the loyalists than among the schismatics.
Most schismatic warriors follow 
Humanity, while a significant number of 
loyalist caste members follow the Path of Blood. 
Among the antitribu, the Path of Caine and the 
Path of Honorable Accord are the most common 
alternate systems of morality.
Suggested Concepts: Arab prince, arms 
dealer, bodyguard, bomb disposal technician, bor-
der patrol officer, chess grandmaster, gang leader, 


Clanbook: Assamite
42
gunsmith, hunter, intelligence analyst, Noddist historian, 
prophet, retired general, secure courier, self-defense 
instructor, small unit tactician, surveillance technician
Caste Disciplines: Celerity, Obfuscate, Quietus
Organization: Loyalist warriors follow the organiza-
tional pattern presented in Vampire: The Masquerade. 
They often operate in packs of two to six members, led by 
the eldest among them. Each pack (sometimes known by 
various paramilitary terms, such as “fire team,” “squad,” 
“brick” or “lochos”) is subordinate to a warrior member 
of the silsila who has some personal connection to the 
pack’s leader or is familiar with the geographic area in 
which the pack operates. If and when a new Caliph is 
chosen, the silsila’s leadership role will theoretically revert 
to this individual, though some silsila members may resist 
this loss of power.
Those warriors who follow al-Ashrad are usually 
subordinate to the eldest magus or vizier in their home 
city. Their vitae addictions and stained auras make 
them dangerous bedfellows in the eyes of the Camarilla 
if they’re not “properly restrained” by their clanmates. 
These individuals tend to be solitary refugees dwelling 
on the fringes of Camarilla society, though some have 
established themselves as sheriffs or scourges and a few 
have offered their services as archons. They currently 
have no formal head, though some favor declaring a 
“Caliph-in-exile.”
The Assamite antitribu have their own unique 
structure which is described in the Guide to the Sabbat.
Bloodlines: The Assamite antitribu of the Sabbat 
consider themselves a separate bloodline, though there 
is no functional difference between them and the main 
body of the warriors in the modern nights. North Africa 
is home to a small nomadic warrior line of Bedouin 
stock that practices Animalism and makes extensive 
use of ghoul predators and warhorses to maintain their 
dominion over the thinly populated wastelands that they 
call home. These individuals hold no sectarian allegiance 
and are only nominally loyal to Alamut.
Sorcerers
Their existence has long been known to the Tremere, 
but the rest of the modern Cainite world considered the 
notion of Assamite blood magicians unthinkable until 
recent nights. The sorcerers greet this notion with no small 
degree of ironic amusement, as their own records state that 
they are the eldest organized blood magicians of any clan.
The Assamite sorcerers originated in the Second 
City, shortly after Haqim created his second brood to act 
as the city’s judges. The first of their number were mortal 
wizards enlisted in various conflicts with the promise of 
temporal power and eventual immortality. They worked 
alongside the judges as interrogators, seekers of the truth 
and hunters of demons, and consorted with the scholars 
in pursuit of knowledge for knowledge’s sake. After the 
Second City’s fall, their role expanded to include such 
tasks as magical communication to keep the clan unified, 
weather sorcery to nurture the crops of the mortal herds 
that the Children of Haqim kept and combat threats 
from both Cainites and other supernatural creatures. 
During the Long Night, the sorcerers were often at the 
forefront of Assamite incursions into Europe, particularly 
in al-Andalus. Near the end of the Anarch Revolt, they 
became the clan’s first line of defense against the Tremere.
After the Warlocks levied the curse, the sorcerers’ 
first duty to the clan became the breaking of that same 
curse. However, that same period of time brought a shift 
in the sorcerers’ dedication to the idea of a homogeneous 
Assamite clan. They had been a moderate unifying 
force throughout much of the Long Night, but the curse 
seemed to affect them to a lesser extent. Many became 
dispossessed and vanished, reappearing a century or 
more later if at all. No few others fell victim to attacks 
by marauding Tremere eager to learn the secrets of the 
Saracens. Those who remained attentive to Alamut’s 
agendas seemed sullen and listless, as if the curse — or 
the desperate need to break it — was sapping their will.
Only in the past decade have the sorcerers rallied, 
returning to their former prominence as an equal and 
integral part of the Children of Haqim. Their artificers 
and alchemists supplied the warriors with a myriad of 
creations, many of them byproducts of research into 
the curse and the nature of Tremere Thaumaturgy. The 
seers swamped the warrior caste’s militants with reams of 
information on enemies and allies alike. Those few who 
In Nights Past: The Tremere Curse
Until the Breaking in late 1998, all Assamites 
were subject to the Tremere curse of poisoned vitae. 
Storytellers who wish to set their games prior to this 
time may wish to use the previous clan weakness. 
Pre-Breaking, warriors are incapable of becoming 
addicted to Cainite vitae because it is a corrosive 
poison to them. No Assamite gains sustenance 
from it, and every point of Cainite blood that an 
Assamite imbibes inflicts one automatic health level 
of lethal damage on him. Diablerie attempts result 
in automatic aggravated damage, one health level 
per point of permanent Willpower the victim pos-
sessed, and the would-be diablerist gains no benefits 
(including generation reduction) if he survives the 
process. All three castes’ auras are still stained at this 
time, but few consider this a significant liability. The 
sorcerers and viziers still suffer from the weaknesses 
detailed on the following pages as well.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
43
still followed their forebears’ tradition of demon hunting 
swung into furious action, cleansing their territories of 
servants of the Tremere and anything else unfortunate 
enough to cross their paths. A furious exchange of infor-
mation crackled across the global telecommunications 
network and arced through the ether, uniting brethren 
unseen in centuries in a resumption of purpose: find the 
roots of Tremere power and shatter the curse.
Then ur-Shulgi arose. With a week’s preparation and 
a single night of action, it accomplished what hundreds 
of lesser sorcerers had vainly attempted for five hundred 
years. The shock waves of its feat, both magical and social, 
rolled through the caste. All but a tiny handful of 
sorcerers felt the fluctuation of energy when the 
Methuselah called upon the blood that flowed 
in their veins. The caste collectively held its 
figurative breath, waiting to see what ur-Shulgi 
would do next.
The resulting conflict between the new 
Eldest and its childe, the Amr, rocked the 
sorcerer caste to its roots. All but the eldest 
sorcerers knew the Amr as the great-
est magician in the world, and few 
remembered ur-Shulgi as more 
than a name from a legend. The 
caste’s faith in its leader was 
nearly unshakable — but 
the appearance of a god-
ling from the clan’s dim 
past was enough to 
shatter the faith of 
many. Though al-
Ashrad was the 
Amr, and thus 
the leader of the 
sorcerers, ur-Shulgi was the new Eldest 
and thus the leader of the Children 
of Haqim. The question became 
one of loyalty to the Amr over 
loyalty to the clan.
Tonight, equal por-
tions of the caste support 
ur-Shulgi’s bloody vi-
sion for the Children 
of Haqim and al-Ashrad’s calm words 
of moderation, while no few sorcerers 
walk the path of the dispossessed in the 
hopes that the conflict will pass them 
by and they can return to their private 
studies. The recent upheaval has left 
many sorcerers out of contact with their 
former comrades, Alamut, and the Amr, 
and many are now operating under their 
own “best judgement,” free from the 
shackles of duty and the light but ever-present yoke of 
the caste’s hierarchy.
Nickname: Magi (singular “Magus”); sometimes 
called “viziers” by outsiders
Sect: The sorcerers are split evenly between 
al-Ashrad’s schismatics and Alamut’s loyalists. The 
only magi who might have joined the Sabbat at its 
inception are assumed to have died at some forgotten, 
chthonic city in Mesopotamia centuries ago, and only 
a few have declared such allegiance since the Schism. 
Many sorcerers become dispossessed at some point in 
their unlives due to some argument, real or imagined, 
with the caste’s organizational structure or an 
individual elder’s practices. However, a 
significant majority of these return to 
the fold sooner or later, either out of 
a thirst for further instruction or to 
escape the attention of the Tremere 
or others who hunt blood magicians.
Appearance: Most sorcerers dress 
in clothing that allows them to work in 
comfort, ranging from lab coats to 
loose-fitting robes or caftans. 
Those who spend a lot of 
time working “in the field” 
favor military fatigues, 
photographers’ vests 
or other multi-
pocket garments 
in which they 
can conve-
n i e n t l y 
s t o r e 
r i t u a l 
c o m p o -
nents and 
useful concoctions. 
Very few sorcer-
ers wear occult 
symbols in 
public, as 
they see 
such ad-
vertising as both vain and 
dangerous. A sorcerer who can 
be identified as a blood magician 
by his appearance is either in his 
own home, dangerously foolish or 
supremely confident of his power.
Haven: Sorcerers prefer 
spacious quarters with at least 
one or two rooms devoted to 
ritual circles and alchemical 
workshops. Their havens 


Clanbook: Assamite
44
tend to be isolated  or highly secure, the better to hide 
their magical practices from the eyes of mortals and 
supernatural beings alike.
Background: The sorcerers usually select progeny 
who are strong-willed, disciplined, and able to grasp the 
abstract concepts and differing perceptions of reality that 
Assamite Sorcery presents its practitioners. They also seek 
above-average levels of education, though this can be 
provided after the Embrace if needed. Magical potential 
is not an absolute requisite, as the sorcerers are scholars 
and scientists as much as they are magicians. The caste 
has no particular preference for gender or ethnicity.
Character Creation: The sorcerers kept a low profile 
for centuries and still tend to do so tonight, so their 
personalities tend to be subdued, at least externally. 
Like most other blood magicians, they tend toward 
Mental Attributes and high Willpower. Slow learners 
and the undisciplined do not fare well within the caste. 
It is a rare sorcerer who lacks some level of Academics 
and Occult, though such individuals do exist. Almost 
every sorcerer enjoys the tutelage of a Mentor at some 
point in her unlife, and many have Contacts or Allies 
in their areas of expertise.
Most sorcerers follow Humanity, though many are 
rather distanced from its higher aspirations by the end of 
their first decades of unlife. The caste boasts a moderate 
number of Path of Blood adherents, mainly among the 
loyalists. Those who have recently joined or had dealings 
with the Sabbat find the Path of Caine and the Path of 
Power and the Inner Voice particularly enticing, and a few 
Iberian sorcerers are rumored to pursue the Path of Night.
Suggested Concepts: alchemist, astronomer, bib-
liophile, demonologist, embalmer, eternally tenured 
professor, fake mystic, hematologist, herbalist, historian, 
linguist, mathematician, metallurgist, museum curator, 
private investigator, Kabbalist, sage, seer, theologian, 
toxicologist
Caste Disciplines: Assamite Sorcery, Obfuscate, 
Quietus
Organization: Prior to the Schism, the sorcerers 
maintained a loose meritocracy based on a combination 
of skill and academic descent. Status came from a sor-
cerer’s own abilities and the credentials of his teachers. 
The clan’s separation has torn this structure asunder, 
and both halves of the caste are currently re-establishing 
their own social orders.
Both loyalists and schismatics follow the pre-Schism 
tradition of appointing the Amr, the head of the caste, 
through ritual divination every year. Al-Ashrad heads 
the schismatics, to no one’s surprise. The loyalist sor-
cerers have not yet made a formal appointment (or 
even performed the ritual since the Schism), but they 
generally acknowledge al-Ashrad’s childe and protégé, 
Amaravati, as their Amr.
Bloodlines: No known variations exist among the 
modern sorcerers. Historical records show that the caste 
was once predisposed to Auspex rather than Obfuscate, 
but the shift to the current set of proficiencies took place 
between the 12th and 15th centuries.
Viziers
Prior to the Final Nights, few modern Cainites would 
have guessed that a portion of the Assamite clan could 
be devoted to peaceful pursuits. Yet the vast majority of 
the vizier caste is, if not pacifistic, then at least inclined 
toward studies other than combat.
By the most commonly accepted account, the viziers 
are the eldest of the three castes. Haqim was a warrior before 
he was a scholar, but his first brood was one of artisans and 
sages, each one the finest example of his chosen profession 
or craft that the Second City’s mortals had to offer. Such 
exclusive selection, so the stories say, caused no small 
amount of strife between Haqim and the Ancient Arikel, 
who most Cainite scholars agree was the founder of the 
In Nights Past:  
Losses of Vision and Power
Originally, the sorcerers had Auspex, not 
Obfuscate, as a caste Discipline, and all opposing 
powers were two levels up, not one, for purposes of 
opposing any form of magical cloaking (see Libel-
lus Sanguinus III: Wolves at the Door for more 
information on the Assamite sorcerers in previous 
eras and the Storyteller’s Options sidebar, below). As 
the caste’s focus gradually shifted to concealment, 
their Discipline aptitude shifted as well. Individuals 
trying to pierce the supernatural cover of modern 
sorcerers enjoy less of an advantage because mystic 
concealment is now more of an innate quality than 
one that a sorcerer must learn as a “foreign” skill.
To perform the Breaking, ur-Shulgi crafted a 
unique ritual that allowed him to borrow a portion of 
the magical power of every vampire descended from 
him. As over two-thirds of the Assamite sorcerers 
can trace their ancestry to ur-Shulgi, this ritual af-
fected all but a handful of them. This ritual’s effects 
lasted in full for a year and a night, then gradually 
faded over the next year. Between 1998 and the 
latter part of 2000, all sorcerers found themselves 
diminished in strength for the purposes of all blood 
magic, not just “foreign” practices (see Assamite 
Sorcery, p. XX) and were required to spend one extra 
blood point for any blood magic invocation, be it a 
path or ritual. By the end of 2000, these effects had 
disappeared, leaving the sorcerers with only their 
“default” caste weakness. This weakness appears in 
a simplified form in Vampire: The Masquerade.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
45
Toreador clan. Indeed, the vizier line appears to bear some 
vague similarities to the “clan of the rose,” though neither 
group is willing to admit any close relation.
The viziers originated as seekers of knowledge, and 
a surprisingly strong majority of the line has held to this 
ideal over the millennia. Indeed, it seems as if the caste 
as a whole is driven to create and learn, as if possessed 
by a solitary mania — or guided by a single will. Yet few 
viziers consider their obsessive impulses anything more 
than perfectionism or the spark of inspiration (though 
the viziers are, in truth, no more capable of actual artistic 
creativity than other Cainites). To suggest that a vizier 
is mad — or, worse, lacking free will — is one 
of the greatest insults that one can bestow 
upon a member of this line.
After the fall of the Second City, 
as the Children of Haqim settled into 
their modern caste structure, the viziers 
became the clan’s thinkers, creators and 
occasional leaders, though the warriors 
never relinquished complete control of 
Alamut. They were also the Children 
who, as a general rule, had the clos-
est contact with mortal society on 
a nightly basis. This latter state 
of affairs continues to the pres-
ent night. While the warriors 
gravitate toward the martial 
and religious aspects of 
any given culture and 
the sorcerers seek certain 
select professions, the 
viziers tend to associate 
with nearly any so-
cial stratum. However, 
their innate monoma-
nia makes them less than 
adept at efforts to guide, 
or even slightly nudge, the 
mortal masses.
The viziers’ “caste culture” may 
best be described as a very loose affili-
ation of individualists. Most of the 
caste is as disunited as the sorcerers, 
but without that body’s resources 
for magical communication and 
coordination. Viziers tend to keep 
to themselves unless involved in 
a mentor-protégé arrangement 
or conducting some cooperative 
venture. This is a product of both 
the caste’s shared psychological 
tendencies and the need for secrecy 
during the Long Night and later 
periods. However, the Schism and 
the schismatics’ subsequent alliance with the Camarilla 
has allowed many viziers to exist relatively openly among 
other Cainites, and no few have chosen to enter social 
and political arenas — with varying degrees of success.
Nickname: Scholars or Artisans
Sect: Over a third of the caste may be considered 
dispossessed for all intents and purposes, as their ties to 
the rest of the clan are marginal at best. The majority of 
the remaining viziers chose to follow al-Ashrad to the 
Camarilla. A significant minority of the caste remains 
loyal to Alamut. Few viziers are known to exist in the 
Sabbat, and even these are likely scattered fugitives.
Appearance: As a general rule, viziers are the 
Children of Haqim most adept at blending into 
mortal society. They usually dress professionally 
or informally as the situation requires. Their 
common particularity (or derangement — see 
the Storyteller’s Options sidebar below) tends 
to polarize them toward the two extremes of 
hygiene and style. Many viziers are either im-
maculate and perfectly poised or unwashed, 
rumpled and constantly distracted.
Haven: Viziers tend to select havens 
that are indistinguishable from the 
homes of similar mortal professionals. 
As with personal appearance, de-
pending on the focus and severity 
of the individual vizier’s tastes, the 
quarters are either immaculately 
clean or cluttered so heav-
ily that walking becomes 
difficult. Many viziers 
maintain extensive li-
braries or workshops, 
preferring to “work 
from home.”
Background: 
As a caste dominated by 
intellectuals, artisans and 
a few politicians, the viziers 
usually Embrace individuals 
who are both exceptionally 
dedicated to their chosen 
professions. Few viziers are 
Embraced in the hope that they will 
realize some previously neglected 
potential. When the clan was 
more unified, many viziers selected 
their progeny on the basis of their 
ability to serve the Children as a 
whole. The decay of Assamite 
unity over the past few centuries 
has seen this practice largely fall 
into disfavor (with the exception 
of those researchers Embraced to 


Clanbook: Assamite
46
assist in breaking the curse). Vizier tastes often overlap 
with those of the other two castes, and occasional disputes 
arise over potential progeny with particularly valuable 
abilities. Like the sorcerers, the viziers make no particu-
lar effort to Embrace members of any particular ethnic 
extraction or gender.
Character Creation: The viziers have even more 
experience at deception and denial than the magi do, 
given their centuries of “invisibility.” Their public 
personae usually reflect this, though many are rebel-
lious or innovative explorers at heart. They are equally 
likely to favor Social or Mental Attributes, depending 
on individual professions, and likewise follow the path 
of greatest utility when selecting Abilities. Viziers are 
the Children of Haqim who are most likely to have 
some degree of Influence in mortal society, and they 
often enjoy a corresponding amount of Resources due 
to professional or artistic success in mortal circles.
The vast majority of viziers follow the moral codes 
of Humanity. Few adopt the Path of Blood, but those 
who do are twice as brutal as an average member of the 
warrior caste. Those few who have joined the Sabbat in 
recent nights seem to favor such diverse beliefs as the 
Path of Cathari, the Path of Death and the Soul, and 
the Path of Power and the Inner Voice, depending on 
their individual agendas. Once a vizier sets forth upon 
a Path, he pursues its tenets with a convert’s fervor.
Suggested Concepts: archaeologist, architect, art 
dealer, Bombay movie producer, biochemist, doctor, 
forensic anthropologist, historian, holy man, jeweler, 
journalist, judge, oil baron, political theorist, sculptor, 
“special advisor,”storyteller, telecommunications expert, 
translator
Caste Disciplines: Auspex, Celerity, Quietus
Organization: The viziers have no formal structure 
as a whole. They resemble a loose organization of vaguely 
affiliated professionals more than any sort of occult con-
spiracy or military order. Prestige is generally a matter 
of who an individual vizier knows and what she’s done, 
and varies depending on the audience — a poet may 
not be all that impressed by a particle physicist. The 
caste does have one unique custom derived from Arab 
scholarly traditions: Academic lineage is considered as 
important as blood descent. Thus, a vizier’s sire may not 
be as important as his instructors, and some go so far 
as to present themselves in such a manner when mak-
ing formal introductions. As noted above, most viziers 
tend to their own affairs unless working on a specific 
cooperative project.
Bloodlines: One group among the viziers was ac-
tive in Byzantine politics during that empire’s nights of 
prominence, and its survivors and their descendants still 
favor Presence over Celerity. Perhaps two dozen members 
of this courtier line exist in the modern nights, and they 
are largely confined to the Middle East, acting on their 
own agendas in the courts of the Ashirra.
Storyteller’s Options
For those Storytellers choosing to highlight the 
distinctions between the Assamite castes, the follow-
ing optional systems are included. Note that unless the 
Storyteller chooses to implement these options, all As-
samites suffer the “normal” clan weakness as presented 
in the core rulebook regardless of caste.
In Vampire: the Dark Ages, the castes suffered these 
weaknesses as part of the “official” rules of the setting. In 
the modern nights, however, these mechanical variations 
are not so important as the social and political struggles 
the clan faces nightly. Almost in spite of themselves, the 
Assamites have grown closer in the ties of the blood as 
they have distanced themselves ideologically.
A Storyteller employing these systems in her 
chronicle should consider the purposes of the various 
weaknesses. She may also wish to levy the weaknesses 
in addition to the “common” clan weakness, should it 
suit the story.
Variant Warrior Weaknesses: As per Vampire: 
The Masquerade, all warriors may become addicted to 
the blood of other Cainites. Every time a warrior tastes 
Kindred vitae, the player must make a Self-Control roll 
(difficulty equal to the number of blood points ingested 
+3). If this roll fails, the character becomes addicted. 
From that point on, every time he comes into contact 
with Cainite vitae, the player must make a Self-Control 
The Value of Hidden Faces
While the warriors remained well known 
throughout the Assamites’ history, the sorcerer and 
vizier castes became clouded and indistinct in the eyes 
of Kindred outside the clan. Many accounts refer to 
them as one caste or bloodline, labeling all nonwar-
rior Assamites “viziers.” The Assamites traditionally 
encouraged this misconception for several reasons. 
First, as the Tremere rose in power, other Kindred 
practitioners of blood magic found themselves threat-
ened. Although they were powerful, the sorcerers were 
also wise. They had no desire to embroil Alamut in a 
futile conflict with the blood-witches of Clan Tremere, 
so they disguised their natures. Second, the warriors’ 
growing dominance of the clan in the same period led 
them to view to all nonwarriors as inferior, and thus 
they did not acknowledge the viziers and sorcerers as 
their equals when speaking to those outside the clan. 
Finally, as the clan moved into a period of war against 
all other Kindred, the Assamites realized the value 
of hidden faces: if the clan’s enemies didn’t know of 
a resource, they couldn’t destroy it.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
47
roll (difficulty 8) or the character enters an immediate 
hunger frenzy.
The warriors also suffer from stained auras — an 
inspection of a warrior’s aura that scores any degree of 
success automatically reveals signs of diablerie, even if 
the character has never so much as tasted Cainite vitae 
since his Embrace. The caste widely believes this to be 
a remnant of their judge forbears’ practice of ritual dia-
blerie in the Second City. This staining is little problem 
among the loyalists or the antitribu, but it can be a severe 
impediment to a warrior who seeks Camarilla acceptance.
Variant Sorcerer Weaknesses: The sorcerers claim 
to have practiced blood magic since the nights of the 
Second City. Whether or not this is the case, they 
have been at the task long enough for it to mark them, 
even those who do not make extensive explorations of 
Assamite Sorcery. A sorcerer’s aura always shows the 
distinctive signs associated with blood magic, and any 
observer with the ability to recognize auras will always 
see these markings.
This manifestation, however, is merely a side effect 
of the sorcerers’ strong tendencies toward blood magic. 
The caste as a whole has practiced the art for so long 
that it permeates their blood, making each individual 
sorcerer stand out like a beacon to anyone with super-
natural perception. Any use of a supernatural power 
on a sorcerer for purposes of perception enjoys a –2 
difficulty. Additionally, attempts to penetrate a sorcerer’s 
supernatural concealment using an opposed power are 
considered to operate one level higher than normal (so a 
character with Auspex 2 trying to penetrate a sorcerer’s 
Obfuscate has an effective Auspex 3).
Note that these weaknesses give no benefits to 
an observer with no supernatural perception, though 
mortals may be more likely than normal to notice a 
sorcerer’s supernatural nature (Storyteller’s discretion). 
They likewise do not affect mundane concealment such 
as camouflage.
Variant Vizier Weaknesses: Despite their protes-
tations to the contrary, the viziers are mad — at least, 
by the standards of the game system. Every vizier finds 
himself caught up in the continuance of his chosen 
pursuits to the exclusion of trivial concerns such as 
daily shelter or nightly nourishment. If the character 
has a particular area of expertise, he focuses on it to 
the point of monomania. If he has no such focus for 
his nightly existence, he fixates on the minute details 
of routine tasks. In game terms, each vizier has an 
Obsessive/Compulsive derangement (Vampire: The 
Masquerade, p. 222) associated with his highest-rated 
intellectual or creative Ability. If the character’s focus 
of effort shifts, so does the focus of the derangement. 
The player should roleplay this change gradually rather 
than slap it into place at the moment that experience 
expenditure changes the character’s Traits.


Clanbook: Assamite
48
When this derangement is active, the character’s 
aura flickers with strange whorls and patterns that an 
observer can interpret to discern the character’s Nature 
and the focus of his obsession. Following a successful use 
of Aura Perception, the viewer may make an Intelligence 
+ Empathy roll (difficulty of the vizier’s Humanity or 
Path rating); two successes give the viewer the focus of 
the vizier’s obsession and four reveal his Nature.
Mind’s Eye Theatre Castes
Warriors
The warrior caste follows the “default” Assamite 
profile given in Laws of the Night. The only addition 
is this: Any application of Aura Perception always reveals 
diablerie in a warrior’s aura, even if the observer fails 
the challenge.
Sorcerers
The Assamite sorcerers are the same individuals that 
Laws of the Night calls “viziers.” Conceptually, they are 
the same as in the above material — Mind’s Eye The-
atre requires no particular adjustments for roleplaying a 
sorcerer. However, the game mechanics relating to their 
characteristics change to reflect Mind’s Eye Theatre rules:
Advantage: All sorcerers have some degree of fa-
miliarity with the mysteries of the arcane, even if they 
themselves do not extensively practice blood magic. 
Some learn this from their mentors and instructors. 
Others pick it up through sustained social contact with 
their contemporaries. Additionally, all sorcerers are 
somewhat more educated than the human norm, either 
from mortal academic pursuits or through post-Embrace 
tutelage. All sorcerer characters begin with two Ability 
Traits spread between Academics, Linguistics, Medicine, 
Occult, and Science.
Disadvantages: Any use of Aura Perception on a 
sorcerer reveals that he practices blood magic, even 
if the character has no knowledge of Thaumaturgy 
or Assamite Sorcery and even if the observer fails the 
Static Mental Challenge required to read the sorcerer’s 
emotional state. 
All uses of Auspex or other supernatural perception 
on a sorcerer gain two bonus Traits.
Any observer using supernatural perception to pierce 
a sorcerer’s Obfuscate is considered to have one more 
level than she actually has for purposes of comparative 
power levels. For example, a character with Aura Per-
ception attempting to penetrate a sorcerer’s Obfuscate 
treats his Auspex as if he knew The Spirit’s Touch when 
comparing it to the sorcerer’s level of Obfuscate mastery.
Viziers
As with the sorcerers, the viziers undergo no con-
ceptual changes when converted to Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
However, their Traits do change to a certain extent:
Advantage: Viziers generally have more contact 
with mortal society than members of the other castes. 
A vizier begins with two additional levels to apply to 
any Backgrounds except Generation or Mentor.
Disadvantages: A vizier character has an Obsessive/
Compulsive derangement that is related to the creative 
or intellectual Ability in which he has the most Ability 
Traits. When this derangement is active, it displays itself 
in subtle patterns in the vizier’s aura. An observer who 
uses Aura Perception on the vizier while this derangement 
is active may make a Static Mental Challenge against a 
difficulty of the vizier’s permanent Mental Traits. Success 
lets the observer know what the derangement’s focus 
is. The observer must have at least one Ability Trait in 
Empathy to attempt this identification.
The Guidance of  
the Elder
With the exception of a dozen or so dispossessed 
who sought protection in the Camarilla over the last few 
centuries, the Assamites do not follow the Traditions as 
such. This is common knowledge in the Camarilla, which 
collectively regards the Assamites as lawless renegades 
due to their disregard for Caine’s commandments to his 
descendants. However, it is much less widely known 
that the Children of Haqim have their own ancient 
set of codes handed down from their founder. The clan 
collectively refers to these as the Laws of Haqim. 
Translations of these edicts from the original Eno-
chian are surprisingly unvarying. Members of all three 
The Laws of Haqim
The Law of Leadership
Honor the Eldest among you, for he is to rule 
my House when I am absent.
The Law of Protection
Ward the mortals from Caine’s descendants and 
treat them with honor in all things.
The Law of Destruction
Slay not those of the Blood, for that judgement 
is for the Eldest alone.
The Law of the Word
Deceive not those of the Blood, for my House 
is founded on Truth.
The Law of Judgement
Judge those of Caine’s blood and punish them 
should they be found wanting.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
49
castes and all major clan factions agree on their wording. 
The doctrinal split that now divides the clan stems from 
differences of interpretation of the intent of these laws. 
On such subtle points are the fates of many decided.
The “original” copies of the Laws of Haqim are a set 
of five clay tablets engraved in Enochian, the language of 
the First City. They are one of the most treasured relics of 
the clan’s history. The magi and viziers who tend Alamut’s 
library have used many techniques, magical and mundane 
alike, to keep them in pristine condition. When ur-Shulgi 
ordered the silsila to seal Alamut’s library and museum, 
the tablets were removed from their vault and placed in 
Alamut’s great hall at the right hand of the Black Throne.
Every Child of Haqim who claims loyalty to the clan 
must commit the laws to memory. Only young dispossessed 
are wholly unaware of them. Over the centuries, various 
fashions have sprung up regarding personal representation 
of the laws. Many elders who received the Blood around 
the 15th and 16th centuries still use henna to inscribe the 
laws on their skin for formal occasions, and an individual 
with the laws rudely tattooed across his shoulders was 
probably Embraced in the mid-1800s (or long, long before 
then). Shortly before the schism, it became fashionable 
among neonate Children to wear jewelry with the laws 
engraved on it, usually an amulet or a set of rings.
The Law of Leadership
The Children of Haqim are an uncommonly hi-
erarchical clan. They recognize that with age comes 
wisdom, and those who have lived a dozen or more 
mortal lifetimes are more capable of making informed 
decisions than those who are still new to the Blood. Most 
Children interpret this law as an overriding guideline 
for their clan’s hierarchy, with neonates deferring to 
ancillae and ancillae executing the requests of elders. 
This principle “trickles down” to the lower levels of 
clan organization. If three Children are in a city, their 
de facto leader is the eldest among them. At the highest 
level of organization, this is a mandate for the eldest 
active fourth-generation Child of Haqim to sit on the 
throne of Alamut as Eldest, Haqim’s regent.
As with the social structure of the Camarilla, this 
system has the potential for a vast amount of abuse by 
complacent elders. However, unlike the Camarilla, the 
Children of Haqim maintain a social structure in which 
violence is both overt and relatively common. In practice, 
very few elders who are predisposed toward despotism 
enjoy long or successful unlives as iron-fisted tyrants. 
Most successful leaders among the Children know when 
to delegate authority — and also when to consult younger 
experts for advice on a particular situation that their un-
lives have left them ill-equipped to confront personally.
Over the past millennium, the Law of Leadership 
has been supplemented with an unofficial, but highly 
accepted, tradition of reasonable challenge. The four 


Clanbook: Assamite
50
most esteemed positions within the clan (Eldest, Ca-
liph, Amr and Vizier) are not necessarily occupied by 
the oldest eligible office-holders, but rather by the most 
proficient and confident candidates. The individuals 
who hold each of these four positions must accept any 
formal challenge, so long as it does not come at a time the 
Eldest determines to be a time of crisis for the Children 
as a whole. However, the challenged party may choose 
the method by which the challenge is executed. Each 
of these positions has a short list of formal options for 
resolving the challenge and an even shorter list of stiff 
penalties for the losing party. Many lesser positions, both 
formal and informal, follow less structured versions of 
this challenge system.
One point of note is that the Children generally 
measure a vampire’s age by how long he has been a 
recognized and active member of the clan, not by how 
many years have passed since he received the Blood. 
An individual who was Embraced in the 12th century 
but spent 800 years in torpor or solitude is expected to 
defer to someone who has been awake and participating 
in affairs at Alamut since her Embrace in 1872.
The Law of Protection
The warrior caste’s progenitors, the judges, came 
into existence to combat the excesses that other Cainites 
inflicted upon mortals. Haqim felt strongly enough about 
this issue to make it one of the defining characteristics 
of his descendants. Although the Children do not 
follow the Masquerade as the Camarilla recognizes it, 
most interpretations of the Law of Protection agree that 
“warding the mortals” includes warding them from the 
knowledge of accursed, undying parasites who prey upon 
them and encourage the worst excesses of their society.
Although it is not a dogmatic tenet of the Law of 
Protection, most Children of Haqim extend special 
regard to those individuals who mirror their respective 
caste’s ideals in mortal society. Few sorcerers or viziers 
will inflict serious harm on a dedicated mortal scholar 
if they have another option, and it is the rare member 
of the warrior caste who will injure a police officer or 
soldier except in self-defense (or open war).
This law does not prevent the Children from using 
mortals as a food source, nor does it discourage them 
from participating in human institutions or governments 
for their own ends. It simply acts as a brake upon the 
worst excesses that would otherwise be committed in 
the name of expediency. Very few Children consider 
individual mortals to be expendable pawns if those 
mortals act with some semblance of honor or decorum. 
When feeding, most members of the clan hold back 
from draining their vessels to the point of death or 
hospitalization. In practice, minor violations of this law 
are quite frequent, though simple peer pressure prevents 
more obvious or excessive transgressions.
In one of their very few points of agreement, loyalists 
and schismatics alike despise the antitribu for violating 
this law nightly.
The Law of Destruction
Although this law bears some resemblance to the 
Camarilla’s Second Tradition, that resemblance is su-
perficial at best. Most Children of Haqim take “Blood” 
to mean “Haqim’s Blood,” not “Caine’s Blood,” and thus 
this consideration does not extend to other Cainites 
except as a matter of practicality among the schismatics, 
many of whom now dwell among other Cainites. Haqim, 
it is believed, had no particular desire to clean up the 
messes that widespread fratricide tends to leave behind.
The Law of Destruction forbids wanton killing of 
clanmates. It says nothing, however, about injuring or 
maiming them: “Slay not” doesn’t equal “harm not.” 
Warriors often fight duels, and it’s not uncommon for 
viziers and magi to do so as well. Such duels are usually 
semiformal affairs with a neutral arbiter. Terms can range 
from “to torpor” to “to the first cut,” and the matters 
they settle can be as trivial as possession of a valued 
automobile or as significant as the authority to levy as-
signments across an entire continent. Slips and accidents 
are not uncommon, though the deceased’s friends and 
superiors usually investigate them thoroughly. Likewise, 
nonfatal punishments for transgressions against the Path 
of Blood or Laws of Haqim may be intended to mark 
the accused as a reminder of his failure. Ritual brands 
with ash rubbed into the wound, salt or stone dust 
pressed into the flesh after scarification — such things 
are commonplace and exact their burden forever after.
The Law of Destruction ties into the Law of Leader-
ship in that it allows “the Eldest” the right to kill any 
Child of Haqim under her supervision. Under the most 
common interpretation of the Law of Leadership, the 
accepted “eldest” Child in a given group has the right 
to slay any subordinate. However, excessive exercise of 
this right sometimes leads to fatal retribution. Gener-
ally, an ancilla or elder who feels the need to remove 
a subordinate from the world requests permission from 
a higher authority, typically her caste leader or one of 
that leader’s direct lieutenants.
Occasionally, two Children of Haqim come to hate 
each other to the point that each can be satisfied only 
by the Final Death of the other. In most such situations, 
the Children recognize two options. The first is an un-
sanctioned duel to the death, which usually results in the 
destruction of the survivor at the hands of the first elder to 
find out what happened. The second is for both disputants 
to gather their belongings, walk away from each other 
for one lunar month (or travel an appropriate distance 
in the modern era) and make every possible attempt to 
avoid one another’s presence for the next century. The 
latter solution is generally regarded as more honorable and 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
51
less wasteful of clan resources. A few Assamites believe 
that the duel between al-Ashrad and ur-Shulgi ended in 
such an arrangement, with the Schism resulting from a 
final attempt to avoid a full-scale civil war in the clan.
With the Schism, both primary factions have 
formally stated that their claim to the Blood places 
their opposite numbers outside the aegis of the Law of 
Destruction. Fatal conflicts between loyalists and schis-
matics may eventually become more the rule than the 
exception, though nonlethal sparring and “tagging” still 
dominate for the moment. Within both factions, the 
penalty for deliberately killing a fellow Child of Haqim 
from the same faction is Final Death by beheading un-
less the offender can prove extenuating circumstances.
The Law of the Word
As in the case of the Law of Destruction, “of the 
Blood” generally means “of Haqim’s Blood” as far as 
the Children’s interpretation of this law is concerned. 
Treatment of non-Children is subject to the individual 
Child’s whim and the practicality of lying or stealing in 
any given situation.
As a matter of practicality, absolute honesty is as 
difficult to provide as it is to enforce. “Little white lies” 
and passing gossip are usually overlooked, unless their 
consequences snowball later. A malicious or damaging 
deception, such as slander, receives a punishment that 
is as old as the clan itself: The guilty party is restrained 
by four of his peers while a supervising elder carves his 
tongue out of his mouth. Theft receives a similar penalty 
— the attending elder wraps a horsehair rope around 
the thief’s wrist and other Children pull on the other 
end of the rope until the thief’s hand (or arm) separates 
from his body. In both cases, the elder then smears the 
resulting raw wound with alchemical paste or salt that 
prevents regeneration for the next lunar month. The 
Children of Haqim have few repeat offenders.
Except in matters where secrecy is required for the 
good of the clan or caste, Children of Haqim do not 
often lie to one another. The clan commonly believes 
that Haqim considered theft “a lie of possession,” so 
Children typically do not steal from one another either. 
As with the Law of Destruction, these restrictions loosen 
considerably when a Child from one faction is dealing 
with a member of the opposition.
Many members of the warrior and magus castes 
hold the breaking of a clan-mandated deception to be 
akin to a lie. This specifically includes those individuals 
who reveal too many secrets of the Children to outsid-
ers. Polite, casual conversation on points of theology 
is usually acceptable. Giving away the address of the 
local safehouse is not. Truly catastrophic breaches of 
silence usually result in a bloodbath as every Child in 
the region joins in the effort to silence the wagging 
tongue and all who heard it.


Clanbook: Assamite
52
The Law of Judgement
The last and most important of the Laws of Haqim 
is the one whose interpretation has shattered the clan 
in the Final Nights. Although other factors do exist, the 
heart of the split between the loyalists and the schismat-
ics is the responsibility for evaluating and punishing the 
Kindred that Haqim assigned to his judges so long ago.
Ur-Shulgi’s interpretation of the Law of Judgement, 
which members of the loyalist faction share to one degree 
or another, is that all other vampires (and many of Haqim’s 
Children) have failed to live up to the standards of honor 
and integrity put forth by Haqim in the nights of the 
First City. The Kindred have become a blight upon the 
mortal world, and thus they unilaterally violate the Law 
of Protection. Like a cancerous tumor, they have become 
too deeply entrenched to be treated with noninvasive half-
measures. They must be cut out of the body upon which 
they feed. Momentary alliances with useful individuals 
or groups may be possible, but ultimately only those few 
truly penitent Cainites who adopt the Path of Blood and 
turn on their former peers should be allowed to survive.
The schismatic argument against this interpreta-
tion is that Haqim never intended his Children to be 
an external control mechanism for Cainite affairs, nor 
did he see them as innately superior to other Kindred. 
The judges existed inside the First City’s society, and 
they were as subject to their own laws as any other 
vampire of the time. In order to properly administer 
justice, a sense of perspective is necessary. This, argue 
al-Ashrad’s supporters, means moderation, and it requires 
an ability to “work within the system” in order to curb 
the worst excesses. The “system” that is best suited to 
such a purpose is the Camarilla. By its own admission, 
the Sabbat holds itself above mortals in such a man-
ner as to spit on the Law of Protection. While not all 
schismatics use this argument as their justification for 
rejecting Alamut’s rule, most members of the faction 
at least pay it lip service.
Internal Dividing 
Lines
As with all of Caine’s progeny, the Assamites have 
a number of ideological demarcations within their 
ranks. Some are political in nature, arising either from 
the fundamental difference of belief that ur-Shulgi’s 
awakening brought to boil or from even older conflicts. 
Others are the result of certain Assamites’ membership 
in the various secret and open societies within the clan 
that have endured to the modern nights.
Factions
Prior to ur-Shulgi’s awakening, the primary po-
litical divisions among the Assamites broke down by 
their members’ views on the clan’s relations with other 
Cainites. This is still true to a certain extent: As might 
be expected, few Assamites who favor peaceful relations 
with Camarilla “Kindred” still reside at Alamut. How-
ever, the divisions are now more pronounced, and the 
two new halves of what was once a somewhat unified 
clan are engaged in a shadow war whose consequences 
may stretch far beyond a few Final Deaths.
Loyalists
The loyalist faction is that which is most similar to 
the general Kindred world’s view of the Assamite clan 
as a whole. The loyalists hold themselves to be superior 
to all other vampires — they believe they are the next 
step on the food chain, as far above Cainites as Cainites 
are above mortals. Not all loyalists follow the Path of 
Blood, but most of them are familiar with its teachings 
and honor them to one degree or another, as a code of 
behavior if not morality.
Loyalist doctrine holds that ur-Shulgi, the Assamite 
Methuselah who awoke at the end of the 20th century, 
is Haqim’s herald. According to ur-Shulgi, Haqim is 
the only true authority that any Child of Haqim should 
recognize. The Ancestor’s peers once charged him with 
bringing order to the Second City, but their petty bickering 
(and that of their descendants) proved them incapable 
of maintaining the honor necessary to uphold their part 
of that bargain. Thus, the destruction that the Children 
of Haqim visit upon the Cainites is nothing more than 
the justice that they themselves once requested. They 
are a blight upon the world, as the unrest and suffering 
they cause across the globe proves nightly.
Among the loyalists, diablerie serves a dual purpose. 
First, it allows the diablerist to absorb the power of the 
Blood from those who are unworthy to bear it. This both 
removes a potential threat to the Children of Seth and 
strengthens the diablerist for future struggles against the 
Cainites. Second, it grants a final rest to the soul of the 
unworthy one, which no doubt rebels against its accursed 
condition even if its owner’s mind refuses to consciously 
acknowledge this truth. Although most Cainites view 
diablerie as a violent, murderous act, loyalists believe 
that it is one of the foremost services they can perform 
to honor their Ancestor.
Most loyalists fall along traditional lines of clan 
organization. The center of their hierarchy is Alamut, 
the mountain stronghold that has been the clan’s 
physical heart since the fall of the Second City. They 
acknowledge Haqim as their actual leader, though ur-
Shulgi serves as Eldest and regent of Alamut until the 
return of the Ancestor (which the loyalists believe is 
imminent). The loyalists have no current Caliph, though 
several candidates are jockeying for position. A series 
of challenges for the position seems inevitable. The 
Amr is Amaravati, al-Ashrad’s childe and chosen suc-
cessor. The faction acknowledges no loyalist Vizier and 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
53
probably never will, as vizier backing of the schismatic 
movement was too widespread for ur-Shulgi to trust the 
few members of the caste who remain aligned with him.
Playing Loyalist Characters
Loyalist Assamites are created as per the usual rules 
found in Vampire: The Masquerade. However, they 
are true independents. No loyalist may hold office or 
Status in the Camarilla or the Sabbat without benefit 
of an extensive cover identity (which is usually beyond 
the capacity of a starting character).
While all loyalists believe that the Children of Haqim 
are superior to other Cainites, most of them don’t act 
that way every night. One cannot tell a loyalist from a 
schismatic with a simple glance — members of the factions 
do not wear sashes or sigils to proclaim their sympathies. 
Wise loyalists exploit this in order to sow discord among 
other Kindred, the better to undermine the schismatics’ 
attempts at credibility and acceptance. Even if it doesn’t 
necessarily harm the schismatics, a loyalist may pretend 
to be something other than what he is in order to further 
his own goals. Of course, a loyalist’s player should be pre-
pared for his character to experience a potentially fatal 
backlash if the disguised Assamite is ever unmasked by 
the Cainites who have come to trust him.
Schismatics
The first public appearances of the schismatics in early 
2000 threatened to shatter the Kindred world’s long-held 
assumptions about the Children of Haqim. Although few 
would be so foolish as to call the schismatics “the good 
Assamites,” they are the members of the clan who are 
generally the most capable of coexisting nonviolently 
with those Cainites who follow the Traditions. Many 
schismatics retain their mortal values and moralities, 
though a significant minority of Path of Blood adherents 
exist within their ranks. These latter individuals generally 
follow the Path’s tenets of honor and justice over those 
that promote systematic destruction of all other vampires.
The core doctrinal argument that led the schismatic 
leaders to split from the main body of the clan has to do 
with Haqim’s Law of Judgement and ur-Shulgi’s inter-
pretation of it. Most schismatics believe in moderation 
when interpreting the Law of Judgement. Widespread 
destruction of all non-Assamite Cainites is tantamount 
to genocide, and judging all other vampires on the basis 
of the actions of a visible minority — or even a major-
ity — of them is anything but just. Most schismatics 
have a strong sense of irony, recognizing that the very 
prejudice they condemn in their own clan is levied 
against them by most of the rest of the Kindred world.
A large portion of schismatics have no particular 
leaning toward one or another interpretation of the 
Law of Judgement. Rather, their quarrel with Alamut 
is a matter of faith. When ur-Shulgi ascended to the 
Black Throne, one of his first dictates was the immedi-
ate cessation of all worship save that of Haqim. While 
the Muslim majority of the clan may have tolerated a 
simple order of silence for years or even decades, ur-
Shulgi followed up his initial proclamation by summarily 
destroying several widely respected elders who refused 
to renounce Allah. The Leopards of Zion were the first 
Children of Haqim to challenge ur-Shulgi in defense 
of their faith; they were far from the last. Practitioners 
of every major world religion and no few minor ones 
followed al-Ashrad into exile, turning their backs on 
their clan rather than on their respective gods.
As tentative allies (and, according to some reports, 
prospective members) of the Camarilla, all schismatics 
publicly refrain from diablerie. This is particularly difficult 
for warrior-caste schismatics, as their hunger for vitae did 
not die with their shift of allegiance. Whenever possible, 
schismatic warriors exist under the direct supervision 
of a sorcerer or vizier who monitors them for signs of 
slipping self-control. Most Camarilla princes are aware 
of the warriors’ addiction, thanks to al-Ashrad’s revela-
tions during his bid for Camarilla hospitality, and grant 
their warrior citizens whatever they consider appropriate 
concessions. Most such concessions are “privileges” like 
“warrior Assamites are excluded from mandatory at-
tendance at any Elysium where attendance is otherwise 
required for the Kindred.” No sensible vampire wants a 
potential cannibal too close, and so the once-proud war-
riors have been largely reduced to little more than the 
lackeys and dependents of the other castes. For the most 
part, schismatic warriors tolerate the restrictions on their 
behavior with remarkable good will — they knew what 
they were stepping into, and they left Alamut because 
they believed in something (even if that “something” 
was only self-preservation) strongly enough to accept the 
social stigma of being “refugees” or second-class Cainites.
The schismatics currently maintain a loose organiza-
tional structure that mimics, but does not fully conform 
to, the clan’s pre-Schism order. Al-Ashrad serves a dual 
role as Amr and Eldest. Tegyrius, the pre-Schism Vizier, 
still holds that position. The schismatic faction has no 
Caliph, as the Camarilla would see the establishment 
of a formal organizational structure for the schismatic 
warriors as too much of a threat. In most Camarilla 
cities, the eldest sorcerer or vizier is the de facto leader 
of all local schismatics and must typically report his 
“subjects’” activities to the prince on a regular basis.
Playing Schismatic Characters
As with loyalists, schismatics are created as per Vam-
pire: The Masquerade’s normal rules. Unlike the “default” 
Assamites presented in that book, however, schismatics may 
be at least nominally members of the Camarilla, depending 
on the preferences of the players and the Storyteller. How-
ever, they’re nowhere near as widely accepted as members 
of the seven founding clans are, and it’s rather difficult for 
them to accrue large amounts of Status or hold office. No 


Clanbook: Assamite
54
Kindred has heard any reports of Assamite princes, though 
the seneschal of Phoenix is a vizier and Paris and Athens 
have a sorcerer and a vizier, respectively, among their 
primogen. These are exceptions rather than rules. Most 
schismatics fortunate enough to have claimed Camarilla 
titles this quickly are sheriffs or scourges.
Many schismatics still privately believe that they’re 
superior to all other vampires. Old lessons die hard, after 
all. But those who are unwise enough to be vocal about 
their beliefs are usually on the receiving end of a very 
pointed lesson from their “Kindred.” Most members of 
the faction know what a good thing they have going with 
the Camarilla don’t want their less-diplomatic peers to 
jeopardize that. If they want to be accepted as full sect 
members some night, their best option for the present is 
to keep their mouths shut.
Assamite antitribu
The faction of the clan known as the Assamite 
antitribu began its existence as a group of desperate 
survivors fighting to salvage their clan’s honor in the 
face of what they saw as an unconscionable submission 
to an inferior opponent. When the ragged handful of 
warriors joined the nascent Sabbat, they had little to 
offer the sect but their blades.
In the aftermath of the Anarch Revolt, that was enough.
Over the centuries, the Assamite antitribu grew into 
the backbone of the Black Hand, the Sabbat’s elite military 
arm. This power did not come without a price, however. 
In their desperate pursuit of a new role in unlife, the an-
titribu gradually grew away from their warrior-caste roots. 
By the end of the 18th century, few Assamite antitribu 
neonates were aware of more than the haziest basics of 
their clan’s history. Many had no idea of the existence 
of separate “castes” of Assamites. This was partially due 
to the Sabbat’s emphasis on allegiance to the sect over 
misplaced loyalty to the clan but mostly stemmed from 
the faction elders’ collective desire to distance their 
broods from the “disgraced” main body of the Assamites.
By late 1998, the Assamite antitribu made up the 
majority of the Black Hand’s leadership and comprised 
far more of the Hand’s total membership than any other 
single clan or bloodline. The Sabbat overpowered close 
to one Camarilla-dominated city a month in a blitzkrieg 
campaign along the American East Coast, and the Hand 
— and, consequently, the Assamite antitribu — were 
spearheading the most successful and profitable series 
of assaults in the sect’s history.
Then ur-Shulgi completed the Breaking. Over a 
single night, the symbol of the Assamites’ submission 
to the Camarilla was shattered by blood magic that was 
ancient centuries before the curse’s casters were born. For 
the Assamite antitribu neonates, this was a frightening sign 
that the Antediluvians were close to awakening. For the 
faction’s elders, however, it was an invitation to return 
to the fold. Whatever the Sabbat thought, the faction’s 
leadership had always considered its sectarian allegiance 
one of convenience — the Sabbat was a useful means 
of striking at the Camarilla, and it provided formidable 
protection from other enemies that the antitribu had made 
at the time of their split from the main body of the clan.
Over the course of two weeks, the majority of the 
Black Hand’s leadership simply disappeared.
The result was a crippling blow to the Sabbat’s 
campaign against the American Camarilla. With the 
loss of much of their strategic and tactical guidance, 
Black Hand cells and their supporting packs foundered 
and stalled. Young members of the antitribu attempted to 
take up the slack, but met with mixed results due to their 
relative inexperience within the Hand and the sect. By 
early 1999, it was clear that the Assamite antitribu were 
no longer the heart and mind of the Black Hand, though 
they still made up a good portion of its ranks. Several of 
the upper echelons of the Hand were quickly filled by 
ambitious Tzimisce, along with Gangrel, Ventrue and 
Salubri antitribu and other militaristic Sabbat firebrands 
eager to prove their long-denied worth.
Within a year, the Assamite antitribu’s ranks swelled 
again — not from “war draft” Embraces but rather from 
an influx of refugees. For the first time since the fac-
tion’s inception, Assamites were defecting from Alamut 
en masse. Their motivation now, however, was not an 
escape from disgrace, but rather a flight from what one 
early arrival termed “the walking atrocity that sits on the 
Black Throne and claims to speak with Haqim’s voice.”
Tonight, the Assamite antitribu are far from their 
previous prominence. Their elders within the Sabbat 
have all vanished but for a select few, and many of their 
most promising lieutenants perished in the chaos that 
followed the elders’ abandonment of the sect. They are 
by no means broken, however. The refugees from Alamut 
are very much a mixed bag, but they all share two com-
mon traits: They found ur-Shulgi’s presence too terrifying 
to endure, and they found the Camarilla too much of a 
stifling alternative to consider. In addition, their numbers 
include several members of the sorcerer caste and, some 
rumors say, a handful of viziers. These new arrivals are the 
first nonwarriors to claim Assamite antitribu membership 
since the faction’s escape from the curse — and they have 
galvanized their brethren into action. What the faction 
now lacks in upper-echelon leadership, it makes up for 
with numbers and a renewed dedication to the destruction 
of the Antediluvians and their servants.
Playing Assamite Antitribu Characters
In many ways, the Assamite antitribu are closer 
to the general stereotype of the Assamites than any 
other faction of the clan. Until the past year, they were 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
55
exclusively warriors by caste. While some Assamite 
antitribu who were not combat specialists did become 
True Sabbat, such as the secure couriers who keep the 
Mexican and Canadian Sabbat connected, no sorcerers 
or viziers were among their numbers. Many subscribed to 
the Path of Caine, which set them in direct opposition 
to the more “humane” elements of the Camarilla — 
not to mention the main body of their own clan. The 
antitribu kept to themselves, maintained a high average 
level of combat prowess and generally regarded outsiders 
as potential meals (with the exception of their fellow 
Sabbat members). Under the leadership of the hulul and 
his shakari advisors, they claimed to be maintaining the 
only pure line of the Assamite clan.
When the shakari and their contemporaries parted 
with the Sabbat, their actions eviscerated the Assamite 
antitribu’s claims of purity and jeopardized the survival 
of the descendants they left behind. The only thing that 
saved the vast majority of Assamite antitribu loyal to 
the Sword of Caine from a merciless purge was a rapid 
investigation spearheaded by Jalan-Aajav himself that 
cleared those who remained of any complicity in the 
departure of their leaders. In his report to an assembly of 
archbishops and Black Hand leaders, the Seraph pointed 
out a clear line of demarcation between the loyalists and 
the deserters within the antitribu. With only a handful of 
exceptions, none of those who left was Embraced after the 
Sabbat’s first century of existence. The Vaulderie ensured 
the loyalty of most later inductees — which makes many 
Sabbat question just what the original Assamite antitribu 
did to escape their bonds.
The Assamite antitribu are still a major component of 
the Sabbat’s paramilitary arm, though their role is somewhat 
diminished in the Final Nights. The faction as a whole is 
disorganized and demoralized, though several charismatic 
young leaders are taking steps to forge scattered elements 
into a cohesive whole once again. Most Assamite antitribu 
in the modern nights are young (under a century of age), 
competent (else they would not have survived the initial 
wave of uncoordinated reprisals) and highly motivated. 
The Sabbat would do well to not count them out of the 
running to regain leadership of the Black Hand.
A few all-Assamite antitribu packs still claim mem-
bership in the Sabbat, mostly those that existed prior 
to the elders’ departure. New arrivals from Alamut are 
usually inducted into existing cosmopolitan packs, 
the better to keep an eye on the new recruits until the 
Sabbat can determine their true motives. Most arriving 
warriors attempt to gain positions in the Black Hand 
or as templars. Vizier defectors have established cabals 
or loose packs in Sabbat-dominated cities in Central 
America, though at least three are suspected to have 
taken up residence in Montreal. Any sorcerers who have 
joined the Sabbat are keeping low profiles, possibly in 
the company of Tzimisce koldun with whom they can 
exchange information and share facilities.
The Dispossessed
More a catchall category than a rigidly defined 
faction, the dispossessed are traditionally Assamites 
who choose their own paths over the clan’s internal 
hierarchy. The first recorded use of the term dates to 
the eighth century B.C., when the warrior caste’s his-
torian, Thucimia, wrote of her rebellious childe as “a 
wanton and wild thing, heeding no authority save that 
of the spear, dispossessed by his own hands and lips of 
the safety of Alamut’s hearth and the comradeship of 
Haqim’s Children.” In the early Middle Ages, dispos-
sessed warriors seeking mercenary employment in the 
Cainite courts of Europe gave birth to the first tales that 
cast the Assamites as hired killers. Several centuries 
later, a group of honor-conscious individuals briefly 
earned the label of “dispossessed” before establishing 
themselves as the Assamite antitribu. Assamites who 
claimed Inconnu membership were always considered 
dispossessed, as were those rare few who gave the Ca-
marilla their loyalty or fled east to attempt alliance and 
coexistence with the Cathayans.
The greatest numbers of dispossessed existed dur-
ing the Long Night. In this era, perhaps as many as 
one in three Assamites was dispossessed, though the 
clan has never kept exact records of the number of 
newly Embraced members who turned their backs on 
Haqim’s legacy. This population boom could not last, 
however, and the nascent Camarilla’s crusade against 
the Assamites fell heavily on the dispossessed. Many 
nonaligned Assamites met Final Death prior to the Treaty 
of Tyre for no reason other than their heritage. Dispos-
sessed elders were favored targets of Assamite-hunting 
coteries by virtue of their unnaturally dark skin. By the 
time the treaty was signed in 1496, less than a few score 
dispossessed remained in existence across Europe and 
North Africa. The rest had either perished, renounced 
their iconoclasm and rejoined Alamut, entered torpor 
or sought sanctuary with the Inconnu.
Owing to recent events, the dispossessed may now 
make up a portion of the clan close to that of a millen-
nium ago. Although many members of all three castes 
fled Alamut for the relative security and stability of the 
Camarilla, roughly as many chose to follow no leader 
rather than submitting to a power structure that they 
had known as the enemy since receiving the Blood. 
Alamut and the Camarilla are two polar extremes, 
with the Sabbat lying somewhere off the scale, and 
many Assamites feel that none of these options are 
acceptable. Both faction heads are scrambling to bring 
these diverse individuals back to the fold — as are the 
various leaders of the Assamite antitribu.


Clanbook: Assamite
56
Playing Dispossessed Characters
In general, a dispossessed character is the best option 
for a player wanting to portray an Assamite who does 
not conform to any of the clan’s various hierarchies or 
claim any factional loyalty. Dispossessed come from all 
three castes and may have rejected clan authority for 
any number of reasons, including distrust, paranoia, the 
threat of a personal enemy, lack of sufficient instruction 
from their sires in the “clan culture,” disgust with Assa-
mite politics or just a stubborn streak of independence. 
Likewise, dispossessed tend to ally themselves with 
whatever pack, coterie or individual seems to provide 
the best opportunity for personal gain — or simply for 
personal safety.
For purposes of the views of the organized Assamite 
factions, Assamites who become anarchs or who join 
the Inconnu or other elder-exclusive organizations and 
conspiracies are dispossessed. As stated earlier, “dispos-
sessed” is more of an “everything else” category than a 
given set of clan members.
Orders and Organizations
Although the Assamites have never been as uni-
fied as some would claim, the center of authority that is 
Alamut has always provided the basis for a strong clan 
structure. This allows a degree of interaction on many 
levels that is much more difficult to achieve in any group 
without central leadership. In turn, the very existence 
of a clan structure has led to social polarization along 
many lines: political, racial, religious, professional and 
more. In the Assamite clan, secret societies and open 
organizations have always flourished.
Cynical observers note that, in addition to the clan 
structure that makes such clustering possible, many 
vampires share a common need to feel special or superior 
by belonging to some body that excludes others. In a 
clan that has traditionally stood alone, simple descent 
from Haqim is not always enough.
Whatever the reason, the Assamites have always 
had their share of internal groups that range from the 
deadly to the purely social. The following are some of 
the most prominent, noteworthy, active or visible.
The Sisterhood of the Erinyes
The Sisterhood has existed in some form or another 
since the nights of ancient Greece, when a foolhardy 
vizier gave the Blood to a trio of sisters who were ru-
mored to have powers of prophecy. This overzealous 
individual, whose name is lost to history, should have 
done more thorough research. The sisters had some small 
prophetic skills among them, but they were priestesses 
of Bacchus — and their divinations gave best results 
when performed with the entrails of a still-warm subject. 
The sisters merrily used their sire’s withered innards to 
come to a better understanding of their new condition, 
then continued in their accustomed roles for another 
two centuries until an itinerant sorcerer encountered 
them and gave them a more thorough explanation of 
Haqim’s history.
After a brief consultation over the ashes of another 
Cainite sacrifice, the three agreed to accompany the 
sorcerer to Alamut and learn the ways of the clan. 
During their journey, the sisters came to know the 
clan’s origins. They understood the value of history 
and heritage, and they faced something of a dilemma: 
Which of Haqim’s legacies should they follow, that of 
the scholar or that of the judge? The eldest favored 
study. The youngest, the pursuit of the guilty. The 
deadlock was broken by the middle sister, who sug-
gested that perhaps another divination was in order. 
Rather than go the way of the sisters’ sire, their guide 
quickly agreed and stated that, as he was more familiar 
with the ways of the clan, perhaps he should perform 
the divination. His readings of the stars suggested that 
the sisters would be best suited to judgement, and all 
three accepted this as the gods’ will.
When the sisters finally arrived at Alamut, the clan 
was in one of its periods of male dominance. Rather 
than being welcomed as long-lost fellows finally brought 
back to the fold, they were ostracized and ridiculed for 
presuming to be the equals of the clan’s male members. 
The three patiently swallowed their pride and sought 
out the company and support of other daughters of 
Haqim who were equally piqued by the clan’s collective 
mindset. Taking the Greek gods’ own judges as their 
example, this first loose band declared their intent to 
hold truer to Haqim’s ideals of justice than any other 
Assamites could. They made no specific statement of 
gender exclusivity, but the implication was clear enough.
Over the centuries, the ranks of the Sisterhood of 
the Erinyes have waxed and waned in number depending 
on the clan’s current attitude toward its female mem-
bers. The Sisterhood is a strictly informal group, more 
of an acknowledged social clique than a formal society. 
Those who wish to make some sort of declaration of 
Sisterhood wear a pin or other emblem depicting the 
traditional blindfolded female representation of justice. 
This is roughly akin to wearing an ethnic pride emblem; 
it confers no special privileges, simply giving knowledge-
able observers a clue to the wearer’s sympathies.
Most female Assamites who strive to uphold Haqim’s 
Laws, particularly the Law of Judgement, and to maintain 
a roughly human moral compass are acknowledged as 
Sisters. This latter qualification means that Sisters tend 
to take moderate views on relations with other Cainites, 
and that no Sister follows a Path of Enlightenment other 
than Humanity. However, those who assume that this is 
indicative of some sort of weakness do so at their own 
peril. Most female Assamites of warrior alignment have 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
57
had some level of dealings with the Sisterhood, thanks to that caste’s most 
recent surge of pro-male, pro-Islam sentiment. With the clan’s current crisis, 
the Sisterhood is split between supporters of al-Ashrad and dispossessed. Very 
few, if any, Sisters believe that ur-Shulgi upholds Haqim’s highest ideals.
Playing Sisterhood of the Erinyes Characters
As noted above, the Sisterhood of the Erinyes is purely a social 
circle, with no formal rules except those that various ambitious 
neonates try to codify every few decades before learning the folly of 
such imposition. The only requirements for Sisterhood (and even 
these are understood rather than explicitly stated) are that the 
prospective Sister be a female vampire or ghoul and that she take 
Haqim’s Laws as her guide in unlife, with the Law of Judgement as 
the most important of the five. Sisterhood is theoretically 
not restricted to Assamites, though acceptance of Haqim’s 
Laws is not exactly widespread outside the clan.
Sisters tend to have high personal standards of honor, 
and they usually hold others to equally stringent require-
ments. Interpretation of “judgement” varies across the 
Sisterhood, ranging from the righteous to the malevolently 
gleeful. At least one Sister is known to enforce her personal 
ethics through character assassination, seducing her targets 
and then publicly humiliating them at important social 
events. Others may provide painful but nonfatal “object 
lessons” or simply document an offender’s actions for the 
local Cainite authorities. At least four Sisters have taken 
positions as sheriffs and scourges in Camarilla cities over the 
group’s millennia-long existence.
Most Sisters claim schismatic allegiance or dispossessed sta-
tus, though a few believe that ur-Shulgi has Haqim’s best interests 
in mind and thus remain loyal to Alamut. Many have a level 
or two in Mentor or Allies, as Sisters tend to watch out for one 
another. Most have relatively high Humanity and Conscience 
ratings (a Humanity Trait of 6 or higher and Conscience of 3 
or higher, respectively). They can be from any caste, and the 
potential for non-Assamite Sisters is slowly appearing as the 
schismatics interact with Camarilla society.
The Web of Knives
Until the beginning of the Crusades, the warrior caste 
maintained a tradition of Embracing progeny and then 
allowing them to survive or die on their own merits. In 
1102, a small band of warrior-caste assassins challenged 
this custom by establishing a training center in the Byzan-
tine Empire. These individuals recruited the most promising 
mortal assassins they could find, imparting to them accumulated 
centuries of knowledge and training. When the Eldest questioned 
their behavior, they stated, “We are giving birth to the new breed 
of Haqim’s childer.” Over the next century, this group came to be 
known as the Web of Knives, and the graduates of its training 
program took their place among the elite of the warrior caste. 
The Web still exists in the modern nights. Its members are 
some of the most devout adherents to the Path of Blood, 
and they are all staunch loyalists. Its mission is simple: 
to create the most lethal individuals in Kindred society 
so that they may serve as Haqim’s right hand when he 


Clanbook: Assamite
58
returns to lead his lineage in a final war against Caine’s 
tainted descendants.
The Web maintains a startling combination of 
secrecy and open advertising. The locations of its train-
ing facilities and members’ havens are nigh impossible 
to uncover, as are the “safe” identities of its members. 
However, most of the active assassins of the Web have 
one or more “field” identities through which they deal 
with the rest of the Cainite world. The Web never 
acknowledges its existence outside Assamite ranks. In 
fact, the name is only known to a few Camarilla and 
Inconnu intelligence-gatherers, most of whom believe it 
to be a mortal terrorist organization that the Assamites 
support. However, the Web’s reputation is such that 
the activities and origins of its members are generally 
perceived as those of the entire clan, though this stereo-
type is shifting in the Final Nights. The phrase “Web of 
Knives” is largely unknown, but its individual members’ 
deeds tend to attain an infamy out of proportion to 
their actual significance, and these accomplishments 
are the most visible contributions of any Assamite to 
the Cainite world as a whole.
Each member of the Web is recruited because of 
his martial skills, whether these lie in personal combat 
or in tactical command. His prospective sire gives 
him a choice: Join the world’s foremost organization 
of assassins or walk away. If he chooses the latter op-
tion, his regretful contact summarily executes him 
and disposes of the body. If he chooses to join, his 
recruiter makes him a ghoul and personally delivers 
him to one of the Web’s facilities, where he spends the 
next seven years in constant training. The recruit’s 
master visits him once a month to deliver another 
dose of vitae, but his night-to-night development rests 
in the hands of the Web’s permanent instructors and 
their ghoul assistants.
Supervised training lasts from sunset to dawn, 
seven nights a week. Another two to eight hours of 
each day are given over to physical conditioning or 
independent academic study. The instruction consists 
not only of physical training in personal combat but 
also includes investigative techniques, social decep-
tion, and, most importantly, an array of propaganda 
and brainwashing designed to convince the trainee 
of the Assamites’ innate superiority to all other 
vampires. The pressure is constant. Recruits take no 
holidays during Web training. No time off, no coffee 
breaks. Only an individual who has the discipline to 
maintain this exhausting regimen and the long-term 
vision necessary to understand its transitory nature has 
even the slightest chance of success. Washout rates in 
this seven-year period are obviously quite high. The 
instructors tolerate any given mistake exactly once. A 
repetition of the same failure leads to death.
After this seven-year apprenticeship, the student 
receives one last task: a final field test. He receives a 
photograph, a name and a hemisphere of the world where 
this individual may be found. He must identify, locate 
and kill this target within one month, then return to his 
training facility — a place from which he has not trav-
eled more than 20 miles in the last seven years. Targets 
vary: Some are mortals, some are Cainites, and a few 
have been other supernatural beings of varying types. If 
the assassin succeeds, his sire Embraces him in a solemn, 
elaborate ceremony, and he enters the next seven years of 
his training. If he fails but survives his failed attempt, he is 
considered dispossessed. No Web of Knives member will 
ever acknowledge his existence again (with one excep-
tion; see below) unless he interferes with Web business.
The second seven years of training are more dif-
ficult but more lenient. The transition from ghoul to 
vampire is more severe than the transition from mortal 
to ghoul. In addition, most Web trainees do not receive 
indoctrination in the tenets of the Path of Blood until 
after their Embraces, so the neonates face the additional 
problem of a complete moral and religious readjustment. 
Finally, the trainee is in the “real world” again, now under 
the direct supervision of his sire, acting as an aide and 
accomplice in missions of assassination for high-paying 
Cainite clients or to further the goals of Alamut. At 
the end of these seven years, the student undergoes a 
month-long examination ranging from philosophical 
debate to trials by combat. If he passes, his ceremony of 
induction into the Web as a full member includes the 
destruction by diablerie of an Assamite who failed to 
uphold the Web’s vision of the clan’s ideals — often one 
of the dispossessed who failed.
The Web has a consistently small membership, 
primarily due to attrition but also thanks to its rigorous 
selection criteria. At any given time, less than 20 full-
fledged members are presumed to populate its ranks. 
Half of these are active in the world, while the other 
half maintain the Web’s three training facilities in Af-
ghanistan, Nigeria and Colombia. Under their supervision 
are several dozen ghoul candidates in varying stages of 
training and an equal number of elder ghoul instructors. 
Members are overwhelmingly male, mainly due to tra-
ditional chauvinism. Physical requirements such as raw 
strength are easier to meet when one is a ghoul. Until the 
last century, all Web members were of Arab or African 
extraction, but a handful of Europeans and Asians have 
completed the training since the first one did so in 1869.
The Web operates on a seven-year cycle, with ac-
tive members rotating between training duty and field 
work on a seven on/seven off schedule that begins with a 
field cycle upon “graduation.” The organization is small 
enough that it has no formal internal rank structure 
among its active members, though informal respect is 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
59
awarded on the basis of seniority. The eldest member is 
the Web’s leader, and he reports directly to the Caliph 
and the Eldest at Alamut.
Playing Web of Knives Characters
These individuals are some of the deadliest Cainites 
in the World of Darkness when placed against others of 
comparable age and generation. Storytellers should think 
carefully about allowing Web of Knives characters into 
their chronicles — they can easily upset the direction 
of many games, particularly ones in which the other 
characters are predominantly ancillae or neonates. The 
Web is a contracting house for assassinations commis-
sioned by elders (and the occasional Methuselah) against 
rivals of corresponding power, and it serves a secondary 
function as a “political” tool for the leadership of the 
Assamite clan. A fresh graduate of the Web’s 14-year 
training regimen has spent more time learning how to 
kill than most of the people reading this book have 
spent in school — and he didn’t take summer vacations.
That being said, the Web of Knives can be an effec-
tive plot device for the discerning Storyteller, provided 
that a Web character doesn’t become an excuse for a 
player with an overcompensation problem to go berserk. 
Of course, this is a potential problem with just about 
any warrior-caste Assamite character in the hands of a 
problem player, but even more so with a Web member 
in the story.
Web members know how to do more than just kill. 
They are adept at blending into a wide variety of cultures, 
both mortal and vampiric (though, admittedly, most of 
their knowledge is theoretical rather than experiential, 
and initial attempts at gaining entry into a new culture 
rarely go as planned). This means that a Web assassin 
is likely to operate under an assumed identity for an 
extended period of time. Neonate coteries often provide 
good background for cover identities (and good cover 
in a firefight), and neonates are not as likely as elders 
to catch a Web member’s social gaffes. On the other 
hand, the sheer amount of training that a Web inductee 
undergoes rivals the accumulated casual experience of 
centuries of “normal” Cainite existence, so a Web neo-
nate can function as an integral, equal part of a coterie 
of elders in situations where he isn’t called on to play 
the elders’ political games. Finally, while Web members 
usually operate solo unless they’re with a student, the 
occasional group assignment could provide a good plot 
for an all-Assamite, all-Web story.
All Web of Knives members are warrior-caste As-
samites and Alamut loyalists; no exceptions to this 
rule have yet surfaced. Concerning character creation, 
a recently graduated Web character is built with the 
following point spread: 10/7/5 Attributes, 20/12/8 
Abilities, 10 Backgrounds, 10 Disciplines, 7 Virtues, 
and 20 Freebie Points.
Before a potential Web character’s player starts 
looking smug, there are certain qualities that every such 
character must have. First and foremost, every Physical 
Attribute must be at ••• or higher, as must Manipulation, 
Perception and Wits. Second, the following list depicts 
the absolute minimum Ability ratings for a Web neonate:
•••: Alertness, Brawl, Investigation, Melee, Stealth
••: Athletics, Dodge, Firearms, Linguistics, Subterfuge
•: Etiquette, Occult, Security, Streetwise, Survival
Next, a Web character must have at least Mentor 
••• to represent his sire. A Web member also has an 
affinity for Potence due to his extended time as a ghoul 
that allows him to purchase it at in-clan experience costs. 
All starting Discipline points must be allocated to Potence 
or the character’s usual in-clan Disciplines. Finally, the 
character must have a minimum Willpower Trait of 8 and 
must be on the Path of Blood with a minimum rating of 4.
The Leopards of Zion
The name “Leopards of Zion” has been applied to 
over a half dozen different groups of Assamites since 
the Long Night. Traditionally, any such group that lays 
claim to the title is comprised solely of radical Jewish 
clan members who have taken it upon themselves 
to act as the defenders and avengers of their mortal 
people (whether or not those mortals want or need the 
assistance). The Leopards’ last resurgence was in the 
late 1940s, when an elder calling himself Zev Benzion 
(literally “Wolf, son of Zion”) led eight skilled assas-
sins on a bloody purge of Camarilla Kindred who had 
indirectly supported the rise of the Nazi Party. Benzion 
was torn to shreds in a Blood Hunt in Rio de Janeiro in 
1951, but not before he and his followers accounted for 
over 50 Final Deaths and several hundred executions 
of German and Austrian mortals.
After Benzion’s destruction, his protégés scattered 
to the four winds. Most became dispossessed, but a few 
proudly returned to Alamut. One of these individuals, 
a warrior named Amaris bat Ariela, quietly spent the 
next two decades selectively Embracing and gathering 
followers. During the Six Day War in 1967, she led a 
silent, bloody slaughter that effectively destroyed all 
outside Cainite influence over Israel. In the years since, 
Amaris’s new Leopards of Zion have not attempted 
to direct the course of Israeli politics save for brutally 
suppressing any other clan’s bids for the territory. Only 
the Followers of Set have managed to regain a toehold 
in Israel, and they are playing a vicious game of move 
and countermove with the Leopards.
Tonight the Leopards of Zion are staunchly schis-
matic, as might be expected. Ur-Shulgi has yet to 
challenge them, save for striking down the sorcerer 
Sarah Schneier when she broadcast al-Ashrad’s mes-
sage that began the Schism. The group numbers no 


Clanbook: Assamite
60
more than 20 Assamites, which leads some to question 
who their allies may be. They are largely confined to 
Israel and the surrounding territories, but some known 
Leopards have been seen in Camarilla cities in Europe 
in recent months.
Playing a Leopard of Zion Character
The Leopards of Zion consider any Cainite who is of 
the Jewish faith and displays both willingness and ability 
to defend the Jewish people from outside supernatural 
threats to be one of their number, at least provisionally. 
However, one must gain acceptance from the group 
and, ultimately, from Amaris herself in order to be a 
full-fledged Leopard. This acceptance usually comes 
only after the prospective Leopard has risked his unlife 
(or, on occasion, his soul) in support of the Jewish faith, 
the nation of Israel, or the Middle East peace process.
The Leopards do not explicitly exclude non-As-
samites from their ranks — indeed, one of their most 
respected members is a Ventrue elder who has made 
his haven in Gaza for 300 years. However, virtually 
all prospects who are not Children of Haqim are met 
with a high initial degree of suspicion. The Leopards 
follow a “cell” organizational structure, with Amaris bat 
Ariela heading the organization from her haven in Tel 
Aviv. Most are skilled in personal combat, as Amaris 
prefers to rely on ghouls and mortal contacts to provide 
noncombat support for her various schemes. Many of 
these agents are the former servants of those Cainites 
the Leopards destroyed in 1967, who willingly accepted 
the blood bond in exchange for continued sustenance.
The Thousand-Meter Club
More an informal acknowledgement of skill than a 
formal brotherhood, the Thousand-Meter Club began 
as an inside joke among Americans and Europeans who 
were Embraced into the warrior caste during and after 
the Second World War. Apocryphally, the founder of 
the Thousand-Meter Club was a Marine sharpshooter 
from West Virginia who took offense to several Arab 
Assamites’ slurs against his race and his choice of ar-
mament. He goaded one of his tormentors into issuing 
a challenge, then specified that the duel would be a 
hunt to take place over a hundred square miles of the 
Zagros Mountains. The sharpshooter set an ambush for 
his pursuer, then shot the overconfident traditionalist 
through the throat from a thousand meters away, ef-
fectively decapitating him.
Since that incident, any Assamite who kills another 
Cainite at a range of thousand meters or more is said to 
have “joined the Thousand-Meter Club.” The subject of 
what constitutes a “legal kill” is under constant debate, 
as most Assamite riflemen do not consider the use of 
blood magic or Discipline powers a legitimate bid for 
membership.
Playing a Member of the Thousand-Meter Club
As there are no formal membership requirements 
save for one accomplishment, almost any character 
whose history and Traits allow for the possibility may 
be said to be in the Thousand-Meter Club. If such an 
individual entered through the “traditional” route (using 
a rifle), she almost certainly has Dexterity, Perception 
and Firearms Traits each of 4 or better. Storytellers are 
advised to take the realities of physics into account 
when considering more outlandish claims — no realistic 
amount of Potence will allow a character to kill another 
vampire with a thrown rock from 3,300 feet.
Foreign Relations
At first glance, it would appear that the Assamites are 
radically divided on their views of other Cainites. How-
ever, even the recent Schism cannot erase centuries of 
conditioned responses. The primary differences between 
the loyalists’ opinions and those of the schismatics lie 
in degrees of outspokenness and willingness to change.
The Camarilla
You’d think we should hate the Camarilla — and many 
of us do, if the truth be known. Just ask any of ur-Shulgi’s 
laughing boys. But you have to remember that the Cama-
rilla is the one power outside our clan that has proven it 
can defeat us. That’s indisputable proof that an alliance is 
stronger than a single force that stands alone, no matter how 
unified that force may be internally. For many of us, that 
sort of strength demands respect — and beckons us to join 
with it, especially considering conditions on the Mountain. 
Final Nights or no, there’s a war coming, and I want to be 
on the winning side.
On the other hand, that sort of strength also demands 
a certain degree of attention, because it remains a threat. 
I can see where the loyalists are standing, and it makes a 
good deal of sense. If something has proven itself to be a 
threat once, beat you senseless and then backed off, you’d 
be hard-pressed to just let it be when you felt you had the 
advantage, wouldn’t you?
— Kasim Bayar, sheriff of Milan, schismatic warrior
Brujah
If they understood how to buck up and keep it in their 
pants, they might be a more credible threat. When they’re 
not fighting, they’re whining. When they’re not whining, 
they’re looking for a fight. They remind me of a bunch of 
Irishmen, actually. Still, it’s best to let someone else oblige 
them — or shoot them in the head from a distance. Some of 
them can throw down as well as we do, and it’s all over if one 
gets his hands on you. The elders are the most dangerous, 
as they like to pretend they’re calm and rational scholars, 
but their fuses are cut just as short.
— Evan Rogers, freelance bodyguard, dispossessed warrior


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
61
Malkavians
Although we are encouraged to extend charity and 
compassion to the mad, those of Malkav’s brood would 
strain even a more tolerant heart than mine. They are 
capricious, unsettling and capable of reaching insights to 
which they should have found no path. They have always 
taken a particular delight (or seen a particular duty) in 
meddling with us, but of late their jests have become less 
frequent and their skewed stratagems more potent. It almost 
appears that they have become more focused, which, in 
its own way, is more disturbing than a shift in the other 
direction would have been.
Do not mistake me: I believe their ability to perceive 
layers of reality would be valuable. I simply do not find the 
price agreeable.
— Mohninda Vajpayee Cheran, intelligence ana-
lyst, loyalist vizier
Nosferatu
An oft-quoted mistranslation of the Book of Nod states, 
“In any Jyhad, the Nosferatu are first to die.” The correct 
translation: “In any Jyhad, the Nosferatu are first to disap-
pear.” If you ever expect trouble to strike your city, keep a 
close eye on the Nosferatu. When they vanish down their 
boltholes and pull them shut, follow their example. They 
are the Cainite world’s greatest survivors, and they can see 
a threat clearly before anyone else has more than a vague 
sense of unease.
If they have a flaw as a group, it is curiosity. I almost 
believe that some Nosferatu could subsist on knowledge alone 
if vitae were unavailable — they would certainly make the 
attempt. Feed this thirst and they will repay you in kind. 
Our clans have enjoyed a long and productive symbiosis that 
is far stronger than any transitory political considerations. 
I advise you to foster that relationship whenever possible.
If you have no choice but to destroy a Nosferatu, do 
not, under any circumstances, confront him on his home 
territory. We will never find your ashes.
— al-Ashrad
Toreador
As a clan, the Toreador are frighteningly ineffectual. 
They’d rather stare at old pictures and oddly shaped stones 
and make wailing noises about their lost heartbeats than 
actually get out and do anything.
As individuals, some Toreador are frighteningly ef-
ficient at whatever arts they apply themselves to. If an 
individual Toreador considers swordsmanship an art, 
you can bet your heart’s blood that he’s the equal of 
any two of our warriors. I reserve my personal fear for 
those Toreador who consider politics an art rather than 
a hobby — one of those is responsible for starting that 
whole Camarilla mess.
If the truth be known, the Toreador remind me a lot of 
the viziers, but less organized — which is saying quite a bit. 
Fortunately for us, most of the clan still seems to be of the 
“paint smears and pretty rocks” school of thought.
— Kurush Ishraqi, weather-wizard, loyalist sorcerer
Tremere
The Tremere may be the greatest threat to the Children 
of Haqim since the ancient struggles that shattered the Sec-
ond City. They dragged themselves up by their bootstraps, 
usurping not only immortal blood but immortal power in 
so short a time as to seem a mere flicker by undying stan-
dards. Never trust a Tremere, never turn your back on 
a Tremere and never forget that they feared the Children 
enough to lobby for outright destruction. Their curse was a 
compromise. By some standards, the Tremere may be the 
perfect vampires: They are cold, rational, patient enough 
to wait yet swift enough to strike, never cursed by Caine, 
and deadly in their resolve and their arts. You may, if you 
like, consider a Tremere a cobra, coiled to strike at you 
for its own reptilian reasons and well armed with its own 
particular venom.
If you are fortunate, I will teach you to be a mongoose.
— Deviki Prasanta, Web of Knives Pentjak-Silat 
instructor, loyalist ghoul
Ventrue
Many Children of Haqim bitch and moan about our 
defeat at the hands of the Ventrue, the weaklings, the “rear-
echelon motherfuckers,” the spoiled rich boys from the Old 
Country. They say that we should have struck deep into 
Germany and England and burned them screaming from 
their castles, because the Ventrue are incapable of defending 
themselves. We fought them. We lost. 
A lot of our clan can’t understand how we didn’t win, 
because all the Ventrue seem to do is trade favors and lounge 
around their courts. Understand this: we didn’t lose to the 
Ventrue five hundred years ago. We lost to the Ventrue 
and all their allies and their servants and their friends and 
every poor peasant son of a bitch who ever made the mistake 
of making eye contact with his undying lord. Understand 
that, and you’ll understand where the real strength of the 
Ventrue lies.
— Lydia Dorn, psychologist, loyalist sorcerer
The Sabbat
The Sabbat doesn’t know what the hell to think of us 
right now, and we’re pretty careful about how we view it. 
Most of our elders bugged out last year, and that pretty much 
fucked the Black Hand’s leadership structure. Things were 
kind of tense for a few months, and a lot of us who stayed 
behind were waiting for the hammer to come down. Ap-
parently, though, our loyalty meant more to the higher-ups 
than our sires’ disloyalty did. Some of us have moved up in 
the ranks, and the rest seem to be relatively free from Black 
Hand or Inquisition suspicion. As long as we keep kicking 
Cammie ass, anyway.


Clanbook: Assamite
62
The sudden surge in recruitment from the Mountain 
is another thing entirely. On one hand, it’s nice to get 
confirmation of the reason for the Sabbat’s very existence. 
The Antediluvians really do exist, and they’re determined 
to wipe out everyone who won’t kneel to them. Ur-Shulgi 
doesn’t leave much room for doubt there, judging from the 
reports I’ve heard. On the other hand... shit. That’s the kind 
of confirmation I could have done without for a long while. 
Now we need to figure out what to tell the rest of the Hand.
— Michael diCarlo, sharpshooter, antitribu warrior
Lasombra
Never, never, never underestimate the Lasombra. 
They are the Ventrue without the moral frailty. They are 
the Tremere without the pretensions, they are the Setites 
without the posturing — and they are none of these things. 
Elements among their ranks have also shared a common 
faith with us, as well as common lands. Those nights are 
long past, but many Lasombra still remember them. More 
than any other clan in the last two thousand years, they have 
been our occasional allies, and this makes them a greater 
threat than any other.
— Fatima al-Faqadi, former Hand of Vengeance, 
dispossessed warrior
Tzimisce
What a truly reprehensible collection of freaks, fuck-
ups and megalomaniacs. The Tzimisce are sort of like Silly 
Putty Toreador with the attitude problems of a Brujah on 
crystal meth. I truly fail to understand why the Lasombra 
persist in letting these fools think they’re in charge. I mean, 
every so often, you may need someone to charge a machine 
gun, but that’s no reason to waste effort on keeping them in 
figurehead positions and countermanding all their silly-ass 
dictates from behind the scenes.
Sooner or later, we’ll get the order to give them what we 
gave the Tremere antitribu. I look forward to that night with 
an anticipation that mere words cannot describe.
— Gene Bancroft, templar, antitribu warrior
Independents
There is no such thing as independence in the Jyhad. 
There is only lack of awareness of one’s masters.
— ur-Shulgi
Followers of Set
The serpent metaphor is actually quite inappropriate for 
the Setites. Though they may be reptilian in appearance, they 
are more akin to a trapdoor spider in behavior. At any given 
time, any given Setite has three times as many schemes in 
motion as he is suspected of masterminding. Many of these 
will be interrelated, so that the failure of one will ensure that 
the responsible party blunders right into another. Never make 
the mistake of engaging a Setite on his own battlefield, that 
of the social and political. You won’t notice the fangs until 
they’re in your throat.
For all their prowess in their chosen fields of entrap-
ment and entanglement, the Setites have two rather useful 
weaknesses. First, a typical one is so dedicated to cultivating 
external power that he himself may be relatively weak. Sec-
ond, many members of the clan fall prey to the same blind 
idolatry of their founder that we are often guilty of. If you 
can exploit these, you may be able to remove the creature.
— Sukainah, court advisor of Algiers, dispossessed 
vizier
Gangrel
The Gangrel know many of the same things that we 
do. They don’t have the same specifics, but they’ve been 
keeping their ears to the ground, and they’re also aware that 
some very old, very bad things are waking up. Their deci-
sion to leave the Camarilla was not a political maneuver for 
sympathy or leverage — it was a calculated survival tactic.
You’ve heard the story about the two hunters who meet 
the bear? One starts lacing up his running shoes. The other 
asks, “what are you doing? You can’t outrun that bear.” 
The first guy grins and says, “I don’t have to outrun the 
bear, I just have to outrun you.” That’s why the Gangrel 
got out of the Camarilla and why their antitribu haven’t left 
the Sabbat. The Sabbat can run faster, y’see.
If you meet one of the newly independent Gangrel, don’t 
get condescending. Living with the animals does not neces-
sarily make them oblivious to social niceties, it just reduces 
their tolerance for bullshit — and they are killing machines 
like most of the Sabbat thinks we are.
— Lydia Leszcznska, nomadic scout, antitribu sorcerer
Giovanni
They command vast portions of underworld power. 
They have machine-gun-wielding minions at their beck 
and call. They measure their personal wealth in possessions 
and companies because mere dollar amounts have lost their 
significance. They have an extended family from which they 
can attain assistance anywhere in the world. They perceive 
aspects of reality that are forever closed to most of us.
I could be describing the Giovanni. Then again, I could 
be describing the crack dealers of the Chicago streets. Aside 
from the necrophilia, there’s not much difference.
— Khaled Johnson, bounty hunter, dispossessed 
warrior
Ravnos
Everyone underestimates the Ravnos. They share our 
particular problem of a one-dimensional stereotype in other 
Cainite eyes. They also share our particular advantage of 
a great deal of internal diversity that the rest of the Kindred 
aren’t aware of. We probably get along better with them 
than we do with just about any other clan, in part because 
survival in the places where we have the most contact with 
each other demands too much attention to leave much time 
for comparing fang sizes.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
63
Of course, the lack of political arguments with them 
may have something to do with it, too. They’re nonsectarian 
and have never demanded our heads on pikes, and they’ve 
never gone out of their way to arouse our ire by committing 
mass atrocities on the mortals. We stay out of their way, 
and they stay out of ours. Occasionally, we’ll have to kill 
one of their younger, stupider kleptomaniacs. Occasionally, 
they’ll have to kill one of our younger, stupider sociopaths. 
It’s an equitable arrangement.
— Gerhardt von Eich, negotiator, loyalist sorcerer
Other Parties
Shapeshifters
Do you understand how those of us who walk the Path 
of Blood feel about the Camarilla? Most skin-changers have 
similar feelings toward all vampires, and they enjoy a similar 
position of relative strength.
Do not try to negotiate with them. Do not try to under-
stand them. Do not try to use them or redirect them. They 
will offer you none of these considerations.
— Kazimiera Zuyus, sculptress, loyalist sorcerer
Mages
They are as old as we are, and so are their disputes. 
In general, most wizards treat you with a level of respect 
equal to that with which you treat them. They are mortals 
in form, which makes them inherently fragile, but they have 
several advantages over us — not the least of which is the 
simple ability to walk in the sun.
Some have heard of me, and mentioning my name may 
rescue you from trouble with a magus — once. Do not use 
this privilege lightly or expect it to be effective with all parties.
— al-Ashrad
Ghosts
We make lots of these.
Less flippantly: For some reason, we have little problem 
with hauntings, and few of us have reason to talk to the 
dearly departed. I understand that some sorcerers possess a 
fair degree of necromantic aptitude, but all of the names I’ve 
heard are attached to individuals who are still at Alamut.
— Jessica Tate-Duncan, former DEA agent, schis-
matic warrior
Disciplines
As with any elders, the ancients among the Children 
of Haqim have developed their own unique permutations 
of the “common” Disciplines that the castes practice. 
However, their greatest innovations involve the Assa-
mites’ proprietary Discipline, Quietus. The blood magic 
of the sorcerer caste also offers several unique techniques 
unseen elsewhere in the Cainite world.
Auspex
Some Assamites claim that Haqim was a scholar 
and that Auspex was his foremost tool. Regardless of 
the truth of this statement, the vizier caste still wields 
Auspex with a precision and strength equal to that of 
any Toreador visionary or Malkavian prophet. Many 
viziers refer to the Discipline as “Haqim’s Eyes” and use 
whispered invocations to their clan’s founder to help 
them focus their perceptive arts.
Anima Gathering (Auspex Level Seven)
The power of Psychic Projection allows limitless 
exploration. However, many of the experiences that 
it grants cannot be adequately conveyed to individu-
als who cannot share them. Other would-be observers 
on the astral plane are left blind and deaf. The viziers 
believe Anima Gathering originated as a technique for 
leading warrior-caste mystics on vision quests. It allows 
a willing seer to bring a small group of companions into 
the astral realms with him.
System: All individuals who want to benefit from 
Anima Gathering must be in physical contact with the 
character who possesses the power or with someone who 
is in contact with him — in effect, they must form an 
unbroken chain of participants.
The player spends a blood point for each “follower” 
the character wishes to bring into the astral realm, up 
to a maximum of his Wits. He then leaves his body as 
per the system for Psychic Projection (Vampire: The 
Masquerade, p. 152). As long as they remain in physi-
cal contact with the character, all followers are treated 
as if they know Psychic Projection, regardless of their 
actual Auspex ratings (if any). This temporary power 
functions as if each follower had rolled a number of 
successes equal to those that the “leader” rolled.
On the astral plane, followers remain within close 
proximity to their leader — within 100 feet or so — 
tethered to him by a thin silver leash. They may not 
break this connection. This imposes no penalties save 
for a faint awareness of the leader’s location at all times.
Any follower who loses her physical connection to 
the character instantly returns to her body and loses a 
number of temporary Willpower points equal to 8 – the 
character’s Wits. If this reduces her to zero Willpower, 
she falls unconscious until the next sunset.
MET System: The participants must be in physical 
contact as noted above. Spend a Blood Trait for each 
“follower,” up to a maximum of half your permanent 
Mental Traits (rounded down).
If a “follower” loses her physical connection to you, 
she loses three Mental Traits, falling unconscious for the 
rest of the night if this reduces her to zero Mental Traits.


Clanbook: Assamite
64
Celerity
One of the most primal Cainite gifts, Celerity has 
long been a favored art of the Assamites. Although its 
most common applications are martial, many viziers 
have developed other uses for the preternatural speed 
that their blood can bring them. The clan’s earliest 
records, such as the Parables of Blood, speak of “catch-
ing the wind,” implying that the Assamites have been 
predisposed toward it since their inception.
Precision (Celerity Level Six)
While many elder Cainites simply develop their 
superhuman reflexes to truly amazing levels, oth-
ers find new and varied uses for the ability — like 
Precision. This focused technique allows its wielder 
to apply all of his intense energy to the smallest of 
targets. He effectively increases his fine manipula-
tion capabilities beyond those of the most advanced 
mechanical lathes by moving so quickly as to dis-
turb absolutely nothing save that which he actually 
touches. Cainite sculptors who have mastered Preci-
sion are capable of creating works of near-microscopic 
detail by striking so swiftly as to remove only the 
tiniest shavings of wood or stone. A certain medical 
specialist of the vizier caste is reputed to be capable 
of wielding surgical tools so deftly as to be able to 
reattach severed spinal tissue.
System: The player spends two blood points 
and a Willpower point and rolls Dexterity + Crafts 
(difficulty 6, substituting an appropriate Ability for 
Crafts at the Storyteller’s discretion). For each success, 
the player may add one dice to all rolls pertaining to 
precision, fine manipulation or moving something 
without disturbing its surroundings. This power lasts 
for a number of minutes equal to the character’s 
Celerity rating.
The character is in something of a trance state as 
she concentrates on channeling all her speed into tiny, 
flickering motions. Any actions that do not involve fine 
manipulation are at +2 difficulty. Even conversation is 
a strain. The character may voluntarily withdraw from 
Precision before its duration elapses, but all benefits are 
lost without a subsequent re-invocation of the power. 
Under no circumstances does Precision give any ben-
efits in combat (though it may allow the preparation 
of weapons of fiendish intricacy).
MET System: Spend two Blood Traits and two 
Mental Traits. For the next five minutes, you gain 
two free retests on all challenges related to precision, 
fine manipulation or moving something without 
disturbing its surroundings. You lose all ties on 
challenges that involve gross physical movement, 
including combat.
Obfuscate
The legendary “invisibility” of the Assamites is a 
staple of many rumors about the clan. Most neonates have 
heard stories of fearsome assassins who can appear from 
thin air and vanish in a ripple of shadow. Many Assamite 
historians suspect, though, that Obfuscate was not one 
of the line’s initial Discipline affinities at its Second City 
founding, and only one caste was predisposed toward it as 
recently as a millennium ago. Tonight, however, the vast 
majority of Haqim’s Children are skilled in the ways of 
moving unseen. Warriors and sorcerers both hold a blood 
affinity for it, and many viziers seek at least basic instruction 
from their clanmates. Although most Assamites know the 
common name for the Discipline, many have picked up 
their elders’ habit of referring to Obfuscate as “the black 
veil,” and “donning the veil” is a common expression for 
misdirecting others’ gaze away from oneself.
Blithe Acceptance (Obfuscate Level Six)
Many Assamites undertake pursuits that would 
seem less than savory to most observers. Indeed, sim-
ply being known as an Assamite is enough to draw 
suspicion in many circles. This Obfuscate technique 
serves to dampen the repercussions of its practitioner’s 
actions to a certain extent, making anything he might 
be doing seem much more tolerable. Bear in mind that 
Blithe Acceptance has its limits: While carrying a rifle 
down a street might be overlooked (“I’m taking this to 
be appraised.”), firing that same weapon into a passing 
car would alert even the most complacent observer.
System: The player spends a blood point and rolls 
Manipulation + Subterfuge (difficulty 7). Any observer 
must roll an equal or greater number of successes on a 
Wits + Alertness roll (difficulty 8, reduced to 6 if the 
observer is actively looking for suspicious activity) to 
take note of the character’s actions, so long as these ac-
tions are not physically threatening and the character 
does not attempt to directly interact with the observer.
Unlike most lesser Obfuscate powers, Blithe Ac-
ceptance remains in effect even if the character affects 
his physical surroundings or acts in an obtrusive manner. 
While using Blithe Acceptance, he could pick a lock, 
defuse a bomb, take money from a cash register or rappel 
down a skyscraper in Times Square, and all but the most 
perceptive or paranoid individuals would shrug his antics 
off and promptly forget ever witnessing them, as long 
as those actions stayed within the observer’s definition 
of nonthreatening activity. The Storyteller is always 
the final arbiter of any given character’s definition of 
“nonthreatening.”
MET System: Spend a Willpower Trait and two 
Mental Traits. An observer who wishes to take exception 
to (or even take note of) any nonthreatening actions 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
65
you make must defeat you in a Mental Challenge in 
which you win all ties.
Quietus
The Discipline now known as Quietus has under-
gone several shifts in focus since Haqim’s judges first 
developed it during the nights of the Second City. In 
its modern incarnation, it is a Discipline that uses the 
unique properties of Cainite vitae for two purposes: 
direct martial applications and the dispensation of 
Second City-era justice to other Cainites. In many 
cases, it’s uncertain which of these purposes any given 
technique supports.
Initially, Quietus was a tool that only the judges 
used. Few scholars bothered to learn a Discipline that 
was little more than a series of techniques used to punish 
Cainite criminals. However, after the fall of the Second 
City, all of Haqim’s Children found themselves in a situ-
ation where they were more likely than not to be the 
targets of other vampires who no longer had a use for 
overreaching laws or the enforcers of those laws. The 
scholars who prevailed upon the former judges to teach 
them Quietus for self-defense quickly found a variety 
of divergent applications of many of the basic powers. 
Any scholar who has ever entered a noisy library has 
wished for peace and quiet; Silence of Death (Vampire: 
The Masquerade, p. 175) quickly proved to be useful for 
more than silencing a public disturbance or suppressing 
the pleas of a cornered fugitive.
As the scholars explored other manifestations of 
Quietus, they began to develop unique permutations 
of these powers, either singly or with the conjunctive 
application of other Disciplines. Some used their own 
blood to strengthen irreplaceable artifacts rather than 
melee weapons, while others learned how to selectively 
nauseate an interview subject in order to encourage him 
to only speak the truth. Although they did not always 
have uses for Quietus’s primary powers, many sorcerers 
What’s a Quiet Oos?
Players wishing to portray Assamites may wish 
to be aware of the etymology and pronunciation of 
“Quietus.” The Discipline has possessed a variety of 
appellations throughout its history. The current one 
is derived from the Middle English phrase quietus 
est, which roughly translates to “he is quit” and was 
used as a declaration of release from responsibil-
ity — in this case, release from the burden of guilt 
through an appropriate punishment. In modern 
usage, “quietus” may mean final settlement (as 
in that of a debt or obligation), death, cessation 
of activity or a thing that silences or suppresses. 
Literate Assamites pronounce it “kwi-EET-us” or 
“kwee-AY-toos,” not “QUIET-us.”


Clanbook: Assamite
66
and viziers adopted the Discipline to take advantage 
of the supplementary uses to which their peers put it. 
In time, the entire clan gained an affinity for Quietus.
Even Quietus’s most basic powers have undergone 
several shifts over the millennia. The warrior caste, 
whose judge predecessors were the Discipline’s origina-
tors, has always set the tone for Quietus’ primary focus. 
As the warriors’ general tactics shifted from overt to 
covert, so too did the Discipline’s martial powers change 
emphasis from direct injury to indirect impairment. 
Ironically, many of the modern powers, which are less 
overtly damaging than those practiced two millennia 
ago, are closer to the judges’ original tools of punish-
ment and retribution. Additionally, the Tremere curse 
rendered one of the basic Quietus techniques useless to 
its users; the Children quickly adapted a less complex 
manifestation to fill the void left in their teachings.
As may be expected, some ancient powers still ex-
ist in the Final Nights. Elders who learned them when 
they were commonly accepted are unlikely to forget 
them, and these individuals may bestow these lessons 
on deserving neonates if they receive suitable respect 
and recompense. However, the hierarchy of Quietus’s 
elementary applications is, for the most part, static, like 
most low-level Disciplines. Archaic manifestations are 
remnants of forgotten nights, not commonplace incar-
nations of the modern Discipline.
Blood Sweat (Quietus Level Six)
Although vampires do not have functioning seba-
ceous glands, they are still capable of sweating at times 
of extreme stress. This “sweat” is actually a thin sheen 
of blood on the Cainite’s forehead and palms. Most 
Kindred see blood sweat as an admission of fear or guilt. 
The Assamite who has mastered Blood Sweat is capable 
inducing these feelings in a subject to a preternatural 
degree. The victim experiences a torrential outpouring 
of vitae if he harbors the tiniest shred of remorse for 
any action he has ever undertaken.
System: The character must be within line of sight of 
the subject and spend three turns in concentration. The 
player spends a Willpower point and rolls Manipulation 
+ Intimidation (difficulty of the target’s Willpower). 
The target loses one blood point per success. Mortals 
sustain injury as if they had lost blood from being fed 
upon. The target actually “sweats out” the lost blood 
in a sudden rush of sanguinary perspiration that soaks 
his clothes. Large amounts may even form puddles at 
his feet. Blood lost through this process is considered 
dead, inert mortal blood and provides minimal nutrition 
(half normal) for Cainites desperate enough to lick it 
up from the floor or wring it out of towels. It provides 
no sustenance for the individual from whom it most 
recently emerged.
In addition to the blood loss, the victim is overcome 
by a sense of remorse and guilt for his past transgressions 
(if he has a strong conscience) or an overwhelming 
compulsion to brag (if he is of sufficiently coarse moral 
character). The severity of this impulse depends on the 
number of successes rolled: One success causes a slight 
twinge of conscience, while five successes may result in 
a proud declaration of the subject’s crimes. This effect 
is more storytelling-oriented than mechanical, and the 
Storyteller is the final authority on what the victim feels 
compelled to confess or boast.
Note that this power’s existence is not widely known. 
Vampires and mortals alike tend to shrink away from 
someone who begins spontaneously sweating blood, 
and experiencing such an affliction may panic even the 
staunchest individual.
MET System: Spend three turns (or fifteen seconds 
out of combat) in concentration and issue a Mental 
Challenge which your target resists with his Physical 
Traits. You may risk as many of your Mental Traits as 
you like in this challenge. If you win, make a number 
of Simple Tests equal to the number of Mental Traits 
you risked. For each such Simple Test you win or tie, 
the target loses one Blood Trait (or takes one level of 
lethal damage if mortal).
Selective Silence (Quietus Level Six)
Although Silence of Death is an effective tool for 
the battlefield and the court alike, it is indiscriminate 
in its effects. The assassin who uses it in preparation 
for firing a shotgun also silences the radio over which 
her comrades might warn her of an oncoming guard. 
The courtier who suppresses a room full of dissenting 
voices is likewise unable to speak her own mind. Selec-
tive Silence allows the skilled Assamite to overcome 
these limitations by silencing only those individuals or 
objects that she wants to silence.
When using this power, most individuals exhale a 
thin mist of blood that clings to the selected subjects, 
gradually evaporating as Selective Silence’s effects fade. 
Some Assamites also use a similar technique when 
invoking Silence of Death, in which case the mist sur-
rounds them and moves with them.
System: The player spends two blood points and 
rolls Stamina + Stealth (difficulty 7). Each success is 
one individual or object that the character can silence 
with this use of the power. Each subject must be within 
20 yards of the character. Objects larger than a man 
count as more than one subject: a heavy machine gun 
counts as two, a car as three, and a small aircraft as 
five. Objects larger than a private jet or creatures larger 
than an elephant cannot be silenced through the use 
of this power.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
67
Each subject is completely silenced for a number of 
minutes equal to the character’s permanent Willpower. 
Nothing it does generates sound, though the secondary 
effects of its actions will do so normally. For example, a 
gun silenced with this power will not produce an audible 
explosion when fired, but its bullets still make noise as 
they break the sound barrier. A silenced victim can 
scream all he likes and not make a sound, but may be 
able to summon help by smashing a window.
MET System: The player spends two Blood Traits 
then makes a Static Mental Challenge against a seven-
Trait difficulty for each object he wants to silence, up to 
a maximum number of subjects equal to 3 + his number 
of Stealth Ability Traits.
Ripples of the Heart (Quietus Level Six)
According to Assamite lore, this technique origi-
nated with a Byzantine scholar who wanted to protect 
his herd from the thirst of other Cainites. Ripples of 
the Heart allows a Cainite to leave emotions within the 
bloodstream of any mortal from whom he feeds. Any 
other vampire who subsequently drinks from that mortal 
experiences those same emotions as if they were his own.
System: The character drinks at least one blood 
point from the subject mortal then spends a minute in 
physical contact with the subject while concentrating 
on the emotion he wishes to leave in her blood. The 
player spends a point of Willpower and rolls Charisma 
+ Empathy (difficulty 7 under normal circumstances, 5 
if the character is currently experiencing the intended 
emotion, 9 if he is currently experiencing a strong op-
posite emotion). The subject’s blood carries the weight 
of the intended emotion for one lunar month per success 
rolled. A mortal’s blood can only carry one emotion at 
a time. Subsequent attempts to use Ripples of the Heart 
on the same individual have no effect until the previous 
application has worn off.
Any vampire who drinks from a vessel under the 
effects of Ripples of the Heart must succeed in a Self-
Control roll (difficulty of the mortal’s Willpower) as 
soon as she swallows the first blood point. If she fails 
this roll, the vitae-borne emotion immediately over-
takes her. The strength of the emotion depends on 
how many blood points she drinks. One blood point 
results in a momentary mood swing, two cause a sig-
nificant shift in demeanor, and three or more generate 
a complete change in emotional state. Depending on 
the circumstances and the precise emotion, the effects 
of this may be spectacular or catastrophic. A vampire 
overtaken by romantic passion may temporarily believe 
she is in love with the mortal (or any other convenient 
bystander). One who drinks from a hate-infused ves-
sel may rend her prey to shreds, and one who takes a 
draught of a mortal touched with fear may run away 
screaming. The vampire remains subject to the emotion 
for a number of hours equal to the mortal’s Willpower, 
though she is still subject to other feelings after the 
initial rush of sensation.
The mortal who is under the effects of Ripples of 
the Heart is unaware of the power’s effects on him, 
though he is slightly predisposed toward the emotion 
in question while the power is in effect. The vampire 
who used Ripples of the Heart on a mortal is immune 
to any of its effects he places on targets through the 
use of this power.
MET System: Drink from the target mortal, then 
spend a minute concentrating and expend a Social Trait 
and a Blood Trait. For the next month, anyone else 
who drinks from the subject must win a Static Mental 
Challenge against a difficulty of your permanent Social 
Traits or experience the emotion you left in that mortal’s 
blood. The mechanical effects of such artificial emotion 
are left to the Storyteller’s discretion, but may include 
modified difficulties for frenzy.
Purification (Quietus Level Six)
Although most mortal cultures affix negative conno-
tations to the spilling of blood, most Assamites — indeed, 
most vampires — have quite the opposite reaction to 
it. For them, blood is an unlife-affirming and reinvigo-
rating substance. Purification works on this principle, 
using the power of vitae to cleanse and restore. Rather 
than purging foreign taints from the body, Purification 
allows its wielder to clean other individuals’ minds and 
souls of stains, including those left by the mind control 
of other Kindred. The vampire using this power expels 
his own blood through his skin and allows it to soak 
through his subject, slowly dissipating. As it does so, it 
carries away spiritual impurities and outside influences.
System: The character touches the forehead of her 
intended subject, and both parties spend a minimum 
of five minutes in deep concentration. The player 
spends a number of blood points equal to the subject’s 
Willpower. The subject rolls Willpower once for every 
external supernatural influence (a vampiric Discipline, 
usually, though other supernatural creatures may have 
their own unique powers) to which his mind has been 
subjected (difficulty of the level of the power in question 
+4, with a difficulty of 7 if the power has no level). A 
success nullifies that effect.
Purification has its limits. It can remove directly 
intrusive influences such as Dominate-implanted 
commands, Dementation-generated derangements or 
the imperatives caused by elder vampires’ Presence. It 
cannot dispel influences that are transmitted by blood, 
including a blood bond or the dispositions imparted by 
one’s clan or bloodline, nor can it erase those caused by 
purely mundane techniques such as persuasion, hypnosis 


Clanbook: Assamite
68
or brainwashing, or genuine emotional states such as 
love and hate. It can remove mind-altering blood magic 
effects, but either the character wielding Purification or 
the power’s beneficiary must have a level of Thaumaturgy 
equal to or greater than that with which the effect was 
placed. A character cannot use Purification on herself.
MET System: Spend a number of Blood Traits equal 
to your subject’s permanent Mental Traits. Your subject 
may then make a Static Mental Challenge against a 
difficulty of 7 Traits for each external supernatural in-
fluence that he wishes to purge. Success nullifies that 
effect. The above limitations apply to this power’s MET 
version as well.
Baal’s Bloody Talons  
(Quietus Level Seven)
The toxin generated by Baal’s Caress (Vampire: The 
Masquerade, p. 176) is not enough to significantly harm 
some truly fearsome foes. This progressive development 
of that lesser technique allows its user to envenom his 
weapon with a blood-based poison so potent that it 
corrodes the very weapon that bears it, eating away at 
the strongest metal in a minute or less. However, its 
effects on its victims are spectacular enough to make 
the loss of even the most treasured blades worthwhile. 
This power’s effects are of very limited duration, as the 
substance it creates will quickly evaporate away if it 
does not neutralize itself as it dissolves everything with 
which it comes in contact.
System: The character coats an edged weapon with 
her own blood, as per Baal’s Caress. The player spends 
one or more blood points and rolls Willpower (difficulty 
7). The weapon now does aggravated damage. It also 
gains a number of additional damage dice equal to the 
number of successes rolled plus the number of blood 
points spent. These extra dice fade at a rate of one per 
turn as the poison dissipates, drips off and reacts with 
the weapon’s material. Once the extra damage dice are 
all gone, the weapon’s base damage dice begin to fade 
at the same rate. The weapon breaks if used when its 
base damage is reduced to the wielder’s Strength. The 
only weapons that can resist this corrosion are those 
created with a supernatural power of a level equal to or 
greater than the character’s Quietus rating, and even 
this is subject to the Storyteller’s discretion.
Baal’s Bloody Talons is subject to the same limita-
tions as Baal’s Caress, except the limit on the number of 
successful strikes that do aggravated damage. A weapon 
affected by Baal’s Bloody Talons does aggravated damage 
with every successful attack until it is destroyed.
At the Storyteller’s discretion, the character may 
use the venom this power produces for other purposes, 
such as burning through a padlock or destroying an in-
criminating tape. He may not, however, store this poison 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
69
for later use — even if a container proves resistant to 
it, the substance becomes inert within a few minutes 
of leaving its creator’s body.
MET System: Spend one or more Blood Traits and 
coat the weapon with your blood. It now does aggravated 
damage and gains a number of Envenomed traits equal 
to the number of Blood Traits you spent, which add to 
its bonus traits. On a successful strike with the weapon, 
you may make a Simple Test for each Envenomed Trait it 
currently possesses; success is an additional health level 
of damage. At the end of each turn, the weapon loses 
one Envenomed Trait. When it loses the last Envenomed 
Trait, it is destroyed.
Poison the Well of Life  
(Quietus Level Seven)
Beyond just leaving emotional traces in a subject’s 
blood, the master of this Quietus power can now taint 
that same vitae, making it into a deadly poison for any 
other Cainite who drinks from that mortal. Some As-
samites use Poison the Well of Life to guard their own 
herds against “poachers” or to ward specific vessels 
against indiscriminate feeding. Others have been known 
to employ it as a subtle trap for other vampires, turning 
herds against their owners. Rumor has it that this power 
sprang from the clan’s studies of the Tremere curse.
System: The character touches the mortal he 
wishes to taint and smears a streak of his own vitae on 
the victim’s skin. The player spends three blood points 
and rolls Stamina + Occult (difficulty 7). For a number 
of months equal to the number of successes, any other 
vampire who drinks that mortal’s blood sustains two 
health levels of aggravated damage for every blood point 
imbibed. This damage manifests as a combination of 
acid burns and something akin to toxic shock. 
While a mortal is poisonous to vampires, his body’s 
alchemical balance is slightly altered toward toxicity. 
He gains two extra points of Stamina for the purposes 
of resisting the effects and damage of poisons and acids. 
However, his bodily excretions, especially his sweat, are 
slightly more noxious than normal. He suffers a one-die 
penalty to all Social dice pools if whomever he chooses 
to interact with has a particularly sensitive nose and is 
close enough to smell him.
MET System: Touch your intended subject and 
spend three Blood Traits and any number of Physical 
Traits. For a number of weeks equal to the number of 
Physical Traits you spent, the mortal’s blood is poisonous 
to any vampire except you. Any vampire who drinks from 
such a mortal sustains two health levels of aggravated 
damage for each Blood Trait he takes.
The mortal in question is up two Traits on all chal-
lenges to resist the effects of poisons and acids, but gains 
the Negative Social Trait Repugnant.
Songs of Distant Vitae  
(Quietus Level Eight)
Many Assamite scholars believe this ancient power 
to have been in use as early as the Assamite judges’ in-
ception in the Second City, originally used as a powerful 
technique for punishing Cainites who fed improperly or 
with excessive cruelty. Blood magic practitioners and 
individuals skilled at Auspex have long known that 
vitae can carry residual impressions of emotion and 
personality. This power invokes those impressions to 
overwhelm its victim with “remembered” images and 
sensations drawn from the vessels who held that blood 
before the vampire fed from them. Particularly strong-
willed or hardened subjects may shrug off these visions 
as daydreams, but those who are less self-possessed can 
be permanently changed by the experience. A side effect 
of the use of this power is the partial destruction of the 
vitae from which the images are drawn. Some viziers 
theorize that this is the result of motes of the vessels’ 
consciousness making an effort to escape their usurper.
System: The character touches his target and spends 
a turn in concentration. The player spends four blood 
points and rolls Wits + Intimidation in a contested roll 
against the victim’s permanent Willpower (difficulty 7). 
If the target has committed diablerie within a number of 
nights equal to the character’s Perception, the attacker 
gains one automatic success. The result depends on the 
number of net successes the attacker rolls. Note that in 
all invocations of this power, the sensations that the 
subject relives are expressly negative and terrifying — 
for example, he experiences none of the pleasure that 
would normally accompany the Kiss when he flashes 
back to such an event.
In addition to the successes listed below, the subject 
of a successful attack loses a number of blood points 
equal to the number of successes rolled. This vitae erupts 
from his body in warm red trickles that do no damage 
but are certain to terrify onlookers.
Botch	 The attacker enters a flashback sequence in 
which he relives his last feeding from the vessel’s point of 
view. If the player rolled three or more 1s, the character 
acquires a permanent derangement related to feeding.
Failure	 The target is unharmed and immune to this 
power for a number of nights equal to his Willpower.
1 success	
The target experiences a brief 
(10-second/3-turn) flashback sequence in which he 
relives his last feeding from the vessel’s point of view. 
During this time, he is at +2 difficulty to all rolls.
2 successes	
The target experiences a brief montage 
(15 seconds/5 turns) of flashbacks during which his 
viewpoint flashes between various feedings from the 
vessels’ points of view. During this time, he is at +3 
difficulty to all rolls. Once the initial rush of sensation 


Clanbook: Assamite
70
passes, he is unsettled and at +1 difficulty to all rolls 
until he succeeds on a Self-Control roll (difficulty 8), 
which he may attempt once per scene.
3 successes	
The target experiences a composite 
memory, assembled by his own subconscious, of the ter-
ror that various vessels felt while being stalked and fed 
upon. He must succeed in a Courage roll (difficulty 8) 
or instantly enter Rötschreck. If he succeeds in this roll, 
he is still at +3 difficulty on all actions for the rest of the 
scene due to the distraction that his visions impose.
4 successes	
The target is stunned and completely 
unable to act for a number of turns equal to 8 – his 
Self-Control as he is bombarded by a sequence of the 
most terrifying memories of his various vessels. Once 
this initial onslaught subsides, he must roll Courage 
(difficulty 9) or enter Rötschreck. If he fails this roll, 
he must roll Self-Control (difficulty 8) or gain the 
Sanguinary Animism derangement.
5 successes	
The target is thrown into a nightmarish 
reenactment of the greatest fears of every individual upon 
whom he has ever fed. He must roll Self-Control (difficulty 
9) or fall into torpor for (10 – the target’s Stamina) nights, 
at the end of which he loses half his permanent Willpower 
and gains the derangement Sanguinary Animism. If he 
succeeds on the Self-Control roll, he enters Rötschreck 
for the rest of the night, during which time his greatest fear 
is of his own image. At the end of the night, he must roll 
Willpower (difficulty 9) or lose a permanent Willpower 
point and gain the derangement Sanguinary Animism.
MET System: This is an Ascendant-level Discipline 
in MET. To use, fulfill all of the conditions described 
above and make a Mental Challenge against the vic-
tim (Intimidation counts for retests). If the victim has 
committed diablerie within the past week, the user 
wins on ties against him. If the Mental Challenge is 
successful, the player may choose to spend up to three 
Mental Traits. For each Mental Trait expended in this 
fashion, the victim loses one Blood Trait as the blood 
pours out of his body in crimson tears. 
1 Mental Trait	
In addition to the above effect, 
the target spends 5 minutes reliving his last feeding from 
his vessel’s point of view. During this time, he must bid 
an additional Trait in all challenges.
2 Mental Traits	
The victim suffers a montage 
of experiences from vessels he’s fed upon, assembled by 
his own subconscious. The player must win a Courage 
Test against a difficulty of four Traits or his character 
instantly enters Rötschreck. Even if he succeeds at the 
test, he must bid an additional Trait in all challenges 
and loses on ties for a full hour or scene.
3 Mental Traits	
The target is thrown into a 
nightmarish reenactment of every feeding he’s ever 
committed, again from the perspective of his victims. He 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
71
must succeed at a Self-Control Test (difficulty 5 Traits) 
or fall into torpor for 10 – half the victim’s Physical 
Trait total, at the end of which time he loses half of his 
permanent Willpower total and gains the derangement 
Sanguinary Animism. Even if he succeeds at the Self-
Control Test, he enters Rötschreck for the remainder 
of the night, during which time his greater fear is his 
own image. At the end of the night, he must win (not 
tie) a Simple Test or lose one permanent Willpower 
Trait and gain the derangement Sanguinary Animism.
Condemn the Sins of the Father  
(Quietus Level Nine)
Although the Second City’s judges recognized that 
heritage does not equate to guilt, they also encountered 
many situations in which a vampire’s entire brood had 
committed the same crime. In such cases, the judges often 
decreed the same punishment for all transgressors. This 
technique, which modern viziers believe to have origi-
nated at that time, allows its wielder to administer such 
overreaching punishments. Through Condemn the Sins 
of the Father, a Cainite can apply lesser Quietus powers 
to an entire lineage. Some rumors within Alamut state 
that ur-Shulgi used Condemn the Sins of the Father as 
the core of the ritual that enacted the Breaking, though 
no one has yet explained how (or where) the Shepherd 
managed to find Haqim to use as the ritual’s focus.
System: After successfully using any lesser Quietus 
power on another vampire, the player spends a perma-
nent Willpower point and 10 blood points and rolls 
Stamina + Occult. The difficulty of this roll is equal 
to four plus the number of generations of the original 
target’s descendants that the player wants to affect, up 
to a maximum of 10. If the roll succeeds, every descen-
dant of the original target within the specified range 
of generations suffers the same effects that the original 
target experienced, resisting with his own relevant 
Traits. The player may exempt a number of potential 
subjects from this effect equal to twice the character’s 
Wits, but the character must know their faces or have 
tasted their vitae.
Example: Ur-Shulgi is displeased with a certain Ven-
true prince and wants to use Dagon’s Call on him and all 
his descendants. The prince is of the Seventh Generation. 
To be certain of making a clean sweep, ur-Shulgi chooses to 
extend the blight all the way down to 13th generation, or six 
generations of descendants. Ur-Shulgi’s player (and why the 
hell are you playing ur-Shulgi, anyway?) must roll against a 
difficulty of 10. If the player makes the roll, every character 
who can trace his vampiric lineage to that prince, whether or 
not he’s aware of his heritage, is subject to the same effects 
that the prince suffered from ur-Shulgi’s use of Dagon’s Call.
MET System: This is a Methuselah level power in 
MET. After successfully using any Quietus power on another 
vampire, the player spends a permanent Willpower Trait 
and eight Blood Traits, and enters a Physical Challenge 
(retest Occult) with the target. The victim’s Trait total is 
equal to his own Physical Traits plus twice the number of 
generations the Assamite wishes to affect. The power then 
affects all of the descendents within the specified generation 
range. Each descendent resists individually with appropri-
ate Traits. The player may exempt a number of potential 
targets equal to his Mental Traits, but the character must 
know their faces or have tasted their vitae.
Forced March  
(Celerity ••, Fortitude ••)
This focused application of superhuman speed and 
endurance has gradually fallen out of favor in the mod-
ern era, as aircraft and automobiles bridge distances in 
a single night that would take a man on foot a week or 
more to traverse. Still, in the desert nations that the 
clan claims as its center of power, modern transportation 
is neither available on a regular basis nor reliable when 
it is present. Many elder Cainites also prefer their own 
two feet to any noisy, reeking mechanical contraption, 
so Forced March still finds use.
System: Forced March may be used whenever the 
character is moving on foot for a protracted period of time. 
In effect, it allows continuous rapid movement without the 
devastatingly exhausting effects of combat Celerity use.
At the beginning of each hour of steady travel, 
the player spends a number of blood points equal to 
half the character’s Celerity rating. The character’s 
overland movement rate (normal human movement 
rate over most relatively flat terrain can be assumed to 
be 4 miles per hour, reduced by rough ground or poor 
weather) is multiplied by her Celerity rating. This 
bonus remains in effect only so long as the character is 
constantly moving, with no more than a minute’s pause 
each hour — anything longer than dropping off a letter 
makes her lose momentum.
Forced March may be used for a maximum number 
of hours each night equal to the character’s Fortitude 
rating. It is of absolutely no benefit in combat situations.
It costs 12 experience points to learn this power.
MET System: You may reduce out-of-game travel 
times by a factor equal to the number of Celerity pow-
ers you possess. For example, if you have the second 
Intermediate Celerity power, for a total of 4 Celerity 
powers, you divide normal travel times by 4. Each hour, 
or fraction thereof, of movement costs you a number of 
Blood Traits equal to half the number of Celerity powers 
you have. You may use this power a maximum number 
of times per night equal to the number of Fortitude 
powers you possess. 
You must have Swiftness and Mettle to learn this 
power, which costs 6 Experience Traits.


Clanbook: Assamite
72
Shadow Feint  
(Celerity ••, Obfuscate ••)
The way of the assassin is deception, not direct 
confrontation. However, even the most straightforward 
members of the warrior caste acknowledge the utility of 
misdirection in combat. This technique allows its wielder 
to slow her enemies’ perceptions of him, leaving their 
image of her a fraction of a second behind her actual 
physical location. This makes the fighter’s moves virtu-
ally impossible for an opponent to anticipate, allowing 
her to strike with little fear of reprisal.
System: The player spends a blood point at the 
beginning of a turn in which the character’s Celerity 
is active, and the character’s first action for the turn 
must be evasive movement. For the rest of the turn, 
all attack rolls made against the character have their 
difficulty increased by 2, to a maximum of 10. This 
power is considered an Obfuscate power for purposes 
of negation. An observer with sufficient Auspex is im-
mune to it, as is one viewing his target through a video 
camera or other electronic intermediary.
This power costs 14 experience points to learn.
MET System: Spend an additional Blood Trait 
when you activate Celerity for the turn. Your Swiftness 
action for the turn must be evasive movement. For 
every attack on you this turn to which you respond 
with an evasion rather than a counterattack, you gain 
2 bonus Traits. 
You must have Swiftness and Unseen Presence to 
learn this power, which costs 6 Experience Traits.
Blood Magic 
(Assamite Sorcery)
From a purely mechanical standpoint, the blood 
magic that the Assamite sorcerer caste practices dif-
fers little from that wielded by the Tremere. From a 
philosophical perspective, however, worlds of difference 
separate the two. The Tremere force every piece of 
knowledge they incorporate into the structured, rigid 
framework of high Hermetic invocation. By contrast, 
the sorcerer caste’s practices are the result of millennia 
of adaptation and melding, and are too truly disparate 
to be considered “structured” in any real sense.
The Assamites’ recorded association with blood 
magic began in the Second City. The first Assamite-
affiliated sorcerers were mortal magicians to whom 
Haqim promised eternal life in exchange for their loy-
alty and service against a cult of demon-worshipping 
vampires (and, some would say, other opponents both 
martial and political). Their earliest work, adapting 
their various arts to call upon the power of vampiric 
Vaults and Grimoires
Like the Tremere, the Assamites maintain vast 
repositories of magical knowledge. Prior to the Schism, 
the clan’s central magical library was in Alamut, with 
subsidiary collections in Bombay, Marrakech, Cape 
Town and Vilnius. When al-Ashrad’s followers broke 
away from Alamut, they left the Great Library there 
— but took with them dozens of copies of its contents, 
encoded on sets of CD-ROMs by the last sorcerer to 
hold the Seat of Copper and Lightning. The Bombay 
collection is believed lost to the Cathayans, as neither 
faction of the clan has had communication with its 
curators since July 1999. The guardians of the Mar-
rakech and Cape Town libraries are both firmly loyal 
to ur-Shulgi. The Vilnius facility’s staff is believed 
to be in transit to the United States to rendezvous 
with al-Ashrad, but their current whereabouts are 
unknown and their materials are out of circulation 
along with them.
The CD-ROM copies of the Great Library are a 
disquieting mix of high technology and ancient sorcery. 
Each one spans 32 discs, most of which are taken up 
by digitized images of artifacts too fragile to photocopy 
and too intricate to inscribe in the brief time that Sarah 
Schneier had to prepare for flight. The encryption 
scheme used is MI-5’s latest, and not even al-Ashrad 
can explain how his late subordinate got her hands 
on it. However, Schneier’s true masterwork is in the 
enchantments that the disks bear. An adaptation of a 
Byzantine-era privacy ritual ensures that any attempt 
to copy the data fails: A straight data copy crashes hard 
drives and burns out processors, while more indirect 
attempts like taking notes from the monitor meet 
with other equally expensive mechanical failures. 
Furthermore, the disks are protected by a fierce and 
eldritch guardian spirit. If any non-Assamite hand 
touches the disks or attempts to access their con-
tents, something that witnesses describe as a vaguely 
humanoid whirlwind of blood droplets manifests. Its 
first action is to incinerate the disks. After that, it 
mercilessly assaults the offending party.
In addition to these communal resources, most As-
samite sorcerers maintain their own private notebooks 
and records. The form and language of these varies 
depending on each sorcerer’s personal preference. 
Some prefer to laboriously scribe notes on fawnskin 
in Devanagri script, while others keep their records in 
three-ring binders and microcassette recordings. The 
most commonly used languages for formally recorded 
information are Arabic, Hebrew and Hindi.
Al-Ashrad is not known to keep journals. No 
one has ever reported seeing his personal library, 
if indeed he has one. Ur-Shulgi likewise does not 
apparently keep written records. It claims to have 
no need of physical reminders.


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
73
vitae, established the “ground rules” of modern blood 
magical practices, though many later efforts duplicated 
this work in different ways. Some of these early blood 
wizards remained Haqim’s blood bound ghouls, but oth-
ers requested the Embrace from their master or various 
high-ranking scholars or judges. Under the leadership 
of Haqim and their eventual master ur-Shulgi, these 
latter blood magicians united into a cohesive group, 
drawing traditions and methods from both the scholars 
and the judges but remaining a subset of neither group. 
Over the next several thousand years, the clan’s modern 
caste structure evolved, and the magicians — though 
never the most numerous Assamites — rose to equal 
their brothers in the Ancestor’s eyes.
The modern body of knowledge that is Assamite 
Sorcery draws its content from a wide array of magical 
traditions, from the ecstatic rites of Kali and Shiva’s 
followers to the subtle precision of feng shui to the 
elegant symbolic and mathematical transformations 
of Islamic alchemists and astronomers. In the words of 
the Arab philosopher al-Kindi, whom many sorcerers 
and viziers revere as a spiritual forefather, “We should 
not be ashamed to acknowledge truth from whatever 
source it comes to us, even if it is brought to us by former 
generations and foreign peoples. For him who seeks the 
truth there is nothing of higher value than truth itself.”
The sorcerers took this and similar admonitions to 
heart, and still pay heed to such advice in the modern 
nights. The twin watchwords of Assamite blood magic, 
which seem slightly contradictory to many initiates, are 
discipline and pragmatism. With so many different ways 
to reach the same goal, Assamite studies of blood magic 
often guide a student toward whichever methods work 
best for him, even going so far as to trade an apprentice 
among five or six mentors before an agreeable partnership 
arises. However, the novice who takes such latitude as 
an opportunity to grow lazy or frivolous receives little 
mercy. The sorcerers recognize all too well that their 
tradition’s very nature allows for many more paths to 
disaster than it does to success. Even when practicing 
those arts that use altered states of mind to achieve 
their goals, sorcerers are careful to use the experience 
rather than allowing it to use them.
Mechanical Differences
Assamite blood magic, which is referred to as As-
samite Sorcery when discussing the specific Discipline, 
is mechanically identical to the more common Tremere-
codified Thaumaturgy that appears in Vampire: The 
Masquerade. However, though they work on similar 
principles (the use of vampiric vitae to fuel exertions of 
conscious will in order to effect change upon the physical 
or spiritual world), the two are not crosscompatible. A 
Tremere strives to perform his magic the same way, all 
Assamite Paths and Rituals
The sorcerers have equivalent teachings for many 
common blood magic techniques in addition to their own 
unique lessons. The following list is not an exhaustive 
coverage of everything in the Great Library, but it is a 
starting point for players and Storytellers who wish to 
determine the capabilities of Assamite sorcerers. It does 
not include those paths and rituals that this or other 
books have specifically designated as primarily Assamite 
in origin. The list is organized by book, presenting first the 
paths and then the rituals found in that publication to 
which the Assamites commonly have access. Names in 
parentheses are the names that the sorcerer caste prefers 
to use for each item, if the Assamite name differs from the 
commonly accepted one. Paths marked with an asterisk 
are usually options for an Assamite sorcerer to learn as his 
primary path, provided his instructor approves.
Vampire: The Masquerade
Paths: The Path of Blood, The Lure of Flames*, 
Movement of the Mind*, The Path of Conjuring, 
Hands of Destruction
Rituals: Defense of the Sacred Haven (Curtain of 
Will), Wake with Evening’s Freshness (Black Sunrise), 
Communicate with Kindred Sire (Speak with Sire), 
Deflection of Wooden Doom (Turn the Impaling 
Shaft), Ward versus Ghouls, Principal Focus of Vitae 
Infusion (Draught of the Pebble), Incorporeal Passage 
(Passage of the Ghul), Bone of Lies (Stain of Guilt)
Guide to the Camarilla
Paths: Elemental Mastery*, Neptune’s Might*, 
Spirit Manipulation*, Weather Control*
Rituals: Engaging the Vessel of Transference 
(Falsely Sealed Vessel), Incantation of the Shepherd 
(Shepherd’s Silent Vigil), Purity of Flesh, Blood Walk, 
Burning Blade, Donning the Mask of Shadows, Ward-
ing Circle versus Ghouls, Sanguinary Assistant, Shaft 
of Belated Quiescence, Ward/Warding Circle versus 
Lupines, Splinter Servant, Ward/Warding Circle 
versus Kindred, Enchant Talisman, Ward/Warding 
Circle versus Spirits/Ghosts/Demons
Guide to the Sabbat
Paths: The Path of the Father’s Vengeance (Path 
of the Ailing Jackal)
Rituals: Blood Rush, Illuminate Trail of Prey, 
Eyes of the Night Hawk, Machine Blitz, Recure of 
the Homeland, Mirror of Second Sight
Blood Magic: Secrets of Thaumaturgy
Paths: Alchemy, The Focused Mind (Echo of 
Nirvana), Path of the Blood’s Curse
Rituals: Encrypt Missive (Loyal Eyes), Rebirth of 
Mortal Vanity, The Scribe, Sense the Mystical, Craft 
Bloodstone (Follow the Lie), Impassable Trail, Steps of 
the Terrified (Run to Judgment), A Touch of Night-
shade (Haqim’s Disfavor), Infirm Inert, Severed Hand


Clanbook: Assamite
74
the time, every time. An Assamite may never enact the 
same ritual the same exact way twice in a millennium 
(though some Assamites do very well through rote and 
precision). He always goes through the same basic steps, 
but all the details between those steps might change to 
suit his mood and the situation.
As may be expected, students of Assamite Sorcery 
have great difficulty learning the practices of other blood 
magic traditions, as the basic principles diverge once 
one moves past “you are altering the world around you 
by an application of your will as the guiding force and 
your Cainite blood as the power source.” All experience 
points costs to learn other blood magic paths and rituals 
are increased by half (round up) for Assamite sorcerers. 
In addition, even once the sorcerer has incorporated 
these lessons into her repertoire, they are still alien to 
her. All invocations of a “foreign” path require one 
extra blood point and all rituals take triple the normal 
time and require one extra success for any desired result 
(MET: one extra Blood Trait for paths, triple time and 
two extra Mental Traits risked for rituals).
Assamite blood magic should be recorded on the 
character sheet as “Assamite Sorcery.” Should such a 
character manage to learn the basics of another blood 
magic Discipline, such as Thaumaturgy, Necromancy 
or Setite Sorcery, it should be recorded under its own 
name. Obviously, the player should keep separate track 
of which paths and rituals the character knows for 
which Discipline.
Awakening of the Steel
Although combat mastery is hardly the sorcerer 
caste’s primary goal, they have a long tradition of 
standing ready to defend themselves and, if need be, 
assisting the warrior caste on the battlefield (though 
they have not joined any large-scale struggle since the 
Long Night). Awakening of the Steel is one legacy 
of this preparedness, a path that some say began with 
the alchemists who studied in the forges of Toledo 
and Damascus. This set of techniques focuses on the 
symbolism of the sword as the ultimate extension of 
a trained warrior’s body, drawing on the mythos that 
various warrior traditions attached to their swords and 
daggers: European Crusaders and their blessed blades, 
the kris of Indonesian Pentjak-Silat practitioners, and 
Indian Ghurka and their kukri knives, among others. 
The practitioner of Awakening of the Steel focuses 
on this symbolism as he uses the power of his blood to 
enhance his weapon and his skill.
A student of Awakening of the Steel finds that a 
keen understanding of both the form and the function 
of a blade is necessary for full mastery of this path. A 
character must have a level of either Melee or Crafts 
Ability equal to his level in Awakening of the Steel. 
Those who practice this path also find that its lessons are 
tightly focused, perhaps to the point of overspecializa-
tion. The path is at its most effective with swords and 
knives, and the wielder can only extend its effects to 
other edged weapons. Any attempt to use a technique 
of this path on another edged weapon is at +1 difficulty. 
MET System: Any use of this power on a different 
edged weapon requires an additional Blood Trait. You 
must have a total number of Ability Traits in Melee 
and Crafts: Blacksmith equal to your level of mastery. 
Awakening of the Steel uses both Melee and Crafts: 
Blacksmith for retests.
• Confer with the Blade
Although few Assamites claim to have actually 
spoken to a weapon’s soul, blacksmiths and warriors alike 
have ascribed spiritual qualities to hand-forged blades for 
centuries. Practitioners of Auspex are familiar with the 
manner in which inanimate objects can bear impres-
sions of their own history. Confer with the Blade allows 
a weapon’s wielder to delve into the events that have 
occurred around his weapon. Some practitioners of this 
power claim this makes the weapon feel more “comfort-
able” in their hands, while others speak of the sense of 
history that an ancient blade bears. The actual impres-
sions only take an instant to gain, though many prefer 
to spend much longer in contemplation if time permits.
System: The number of successes determines the 
amount of information the sorcerer gains regarding 
the blade’s history and its present state, as well as all 
information yielded by a lesser number of successes. 
With three or more successes, the sorcerer may lower 
the difficulty on his next attempt to apply a blood magic 
ritual to the weapon by one.
One success	Physical information only: precise 
length and weight (to the micrometer and milligram), 
chemical composition (assuming the character under-
stands metallurgy), number of damage dice and type of 
damage (lethal or aggravated).
Two successes	
Historical overview: when and 
where the blade was forged, the name and face of its 
smith, brief glimpses of significant events in its existence.
Three successes	
Sorcerous understanding: the 
type and relative level of power of any enchantments or 
supernatural enhancements that the blade possesses as well 
as the name and face of the individual who laid them.
Four successes	
Subliminal synthesis: compre-
hensive knowledge of the sword’s history. For the next 
seven nights, the character recognizes the taste of any 
blood that has ever stained the blade if she tastes it 
herself.
Five successes	
Total communion: The sword 
and the wielder become linked at a level deeper than 
the physical and more enduring than the immediate. 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
75
The Storyteller determines what information the sword 
holds for the character, but it may include any event in 
the blade’s history or any aspect of its present existence 
and condition.
MET System: Make a Static Mental Challenge, 
risking up to five Mental Traits, against a difficulty of 7 
traits. If you win, consult the above chart, substituting 
“Traits risked” for “successes.” The Storyteller is the final 
arbiter of how much information any sword can give you.
•• Grasp of the Mountain
The best scimitar in all creation does its owner 
no good if it’s lying five yards away from him. Grasp of 
the Mountain strengthens the spiritual bond between 
the sword and the swordsman in order to reinforce the 
wielder’s physical grip on his weapon. A blade that is 
under the effect of this art never leaves its master’s hand 
unless he so wills it.
System: For the rest of the scene, the character has 
a number of automatic successes to resist all attempts to 
disarm him equal to the number of successes rolled. He 
cannot accidentally drop the blade (which means his 
botches are likely to result in self-mutilation instead of 
an empty hand). If the character is somehow disarmed 
in spite of Grasp of the Mountain, he may call the blade 
back to his hand by successfully invoking this power 
again, assuming he has a clear line of sight to the weapon.
MET System: Spend a Mental Trait. For the rest of 
the scene, you may add your Mental Traits to your Physi-
cal Traits to resist attempts to disarm you, and you will 
not accidentally drop the weapon. If you are somehow 
disarmed, you may call the blade back to your hand by 
winning a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of 
the number of paces between you and the sword.
••• Pierce Steel’s Skin
At this level of understanding, the sorcerer can 
command his blade with such precision as to strike at 
an opponent’s physical protection rather than his body. 
The sword transfers its full fury to the intended target, 
shredding even the toughest chain or plate. This strips 
away the victim’s defenses, leaving him vulnerable to 
the next attack. While this power is of limited utility in 
modern nights, as full plate has fallen by the wayside, 
it remains in the path’s progression of lessons due to its 
utility in destroying other obstacles.
System: For a number of turns equal to the number 
of successes rolled, each successful attack the character 
makes inflicts damage on the target’s body armor rather 
than injuring him directly. Armor injured by this power 
must be of the metal variety. When the character makes 
a successful attack against an armored target, the player 
does not roll damage. Instead, he rolls a number of dice 
equal to the sword’s damage bonus (the number of dice 
that it adds to his Strength) against a difficulty of 7. 


Clanbook: Assamite
76
Each success reduces the armor’s soak bonus by one die. 
Armor that is reduced to zero soak dice in this manner 
is completely destroyed and unsalvageable.
While Pierce Steel’s Skin is in effect, an attack 
against an unarmored target inflicts half damage 
(rounded down). Additional successes beyond those 
needed to destroy a piece of armor have no effect. At the 
Storyteller’s discretion, Pierce Steel’s Skin may destroy 
other inanimate objects (walls, doors, cars, dramatically 
appropriate obstacles) without significant damage to the 
sword. For the purposes of this power, Fortitude counts 
as part of the target’s Stamina, not external armor.
MET System: For this turn and the next three 
turns, any successful attack you make with the weapon 
destroys two health levels’ worth of armor protection 
for every one health level you would normally inflict. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, you may cut through 
inanimate objects that your weapon would not normally 
damage, with dramatically appropriate effects.
•••• Razor’s Shield
Many swordsmen hold that the duel is the ultimate 
test of the warrior because it places all opponents on an 
equal footing: Death is only three feet of steel away, and 
only the skill of the combatants determines who walks 
away. However, observers who are more pragmatic than 
romantic note that an enemy with a ranged weapon, 
be it bow, sling or gun, has the advantage of striking 
from much farther away than arm’s length. While 
Awakening of the Steel cannot completely counteract 
this advantage, this power allows the skilled sorcerer 
some measure of defense as the sword interposes itself 
between its master and attacks from afar.
System: For a number of turns equal to the number 
of successes rolled, the character may attempt to parry 
projectiles. This requires one action for each projectile 
that the player wishes to block, and the character must 
be able to see the shot coming (Heightened Senses allows 
visual tracking of bullets). Each parrying attempt requires 
a Dexterity + Melee roll, with a difficulty determined 
by the speed of the projectile. Thrown objects have a 
difficulty of 6, arrows and crossbow bolts a difficulty of 
7 and bullets a difficulty of 9. Each success subtracts one 
of the attacker’s successes on his attack roll.
Razor’s Shield does not allow the character to parry 
ranged attacks that do not incorporate solid projectiles, 
such as flame, lightning or spat blood.
MET System: For this turn and the next three 
turns, you may use your Melee Ability Traits to retest 
in challenges where you are subject to ranged attacks. 
You must be able to see the projectile. Bullets require 
Heightened Senses or a comparable power.
••••• Strike at the True Flesh
Although pacifists may find other uses for blades, 
turning their swords to plowshares, a warrior knows that 
swords were created for one purpose: to carve an enemy’s 
flesh into bloody ruin. Strike at the True Flesh invokes 
the very essence of the sorcerer’s weapon, reducing it to 
the embodiment of its very definition (or, as the more 
classically minded would put it, invoking the Platonic 
form) while simplifying its target to a similarly basic level. 
The results of such an invocation are usually devastating 
on both a philosophical and practical level as weapon 
and victim momentarily lose all supernatural attributes.
System: The effects of Strike at the True Flesh last 
for a number of turns equal to the number of successes 
rolled, and they end with the first successful attack that 
the character makes within this time period. The sword 
inflicts only the base amount of lethal damage that a 
weapon of its size and type would normally cause, dis-
regarding all enhancements that it may have received 
(though augmentations to the wielder’s strength or 
speed, such as Potence and Celerity, still have their 
normal effects, as do extra successes on the attack roll).
However, all the target’s supernatural defenses 
(including Fortitude) are likewise negated — he soaks 
the attack only with his base Stamina. If the negation 
of his powers and defenses renders the target unable to 
soak lethal damage, he cannot soak the attack at all. 
Body armor does protect against this attack, as it is a 
mundane form of defense.
MET System: Expend two Mental Traits in addition 
to the power’s Blood Trait cost and make an immediate 
attack with the sword, which counts as part of this ac-
tion. For this attack, the sword loses any supernatural 
modifiers it might otherwise provide for accuracy and 
damage, inflicting only the base amount of damage for 
its type (though your Potence, Celerity and similar powers 
still affect your own strength and speed).
Your victim may not use any supernatural powers to 
absorb, negate, redirect, or otherwise affect this damage 
(including Fortitude powers). Any extra health levels are 
bypassed — if all of a target’s normal Healthy levels are 
crossed off as a result of this attack, he instantly loses 
all “extra” ones and any further damage from the same 
attack is applied to his Bruised health levels. Body armor 
provides its normal degree of protection.
Merits and Flaws
Magical Addict  
(3- or 5-pt. Physical Flaw)
Whether through a weak will, a lingering anomaly 
from your mortal days or overuse of ritual components 


Chapter Two: Prayers to Broken Stone
77
like kalif, you have become addicted to the alchemical 
psychoactive drugs that some sorcerers use to focus 
their blood magic. Going beyond a mere physical or 
psychological addiction, this dependence goes so far as to 
affect your very mastery of the powers at your command. 
Your competence with Assamite Sorcery is dependent 
on the frequency at which you cater to your addiction.
If you take this Flaw at 3 points, suffer a +2 difficulty 
to all rolls related to blood magic, including (but not 
limited to) use of path powers and rituals, whenever 
you are not under the effect of your drug of choice. For 
5 points, you are completely unable to focus yourself 
enough to perform even the simplest blood magic if the 
drug is not in your system.
Only characters with at least one dot in Assamite 
Sorcery may take this Flaw. Non-Assamites may take this 
Flaw if they somehow receive tutelage in the Discipline.
MET System: If you take the Flaw at 3 points, you 
must bid two extra Traits on all challenges related to 
your blood magic when you are not under the influence 
of your substance of choice. For 5 points, you may not 
use any of your blood magic powers or rituals without 
the aid of your preferred chemical. You may not take 
this Flaw unless you have at least one basic Assamite 
Sorcery power. For the assistance of the terminally stupid, 
we’ll say this explicitly: Roleplay your character’s drug 
use, don’t actually do it yourself.
UnBroken (3-pt. Supernatural Flaw)
For whatever reason, the Tremere curse was stronger 
in you than in most of your clanmates. This was no great 
liability while all of you were so afflicted. However, when 
ur-Shulgi cast the Breaking, the great ritual’s power did 
not fully cleanse you. You now share your caste’s thirst 
for Cainite blood — but for you, the very substance you 
crave is still a poison.
The Tremere curse that once affected your clan has 
been weakened in you, but it is not completely gone. 
When you drink non-Assamite Cainite vitae, each blood 
point enters your blood pool normally. However, on the 
way down, it inflicts one automatic, unsoakable level 
of lethal damage in a combination of unnatural toxic 
shock and internal acid burns. On the plus side, all your 
difficulties to resist the warrior caste’s addiction are at 
–1 difficulty — think of it as aversion therapy. If you 
are a sorcerer or vizier, this Flaw is worth one additional 
point (for a total of 4), but you gain the warrior caste’s 
addiction in addition to your own caste’s weakness.
MET System: You take one health level of lethal 
damage for every Blood Trait of non-Assamite blood you 
ingest, though these Blood Traits do enter your Blood 
Pool after the damage is inflicted. You may not use Forti-
tude powers or other supernatural abilities to reduce this 
damage. You gain one free retest on every Self-Control 
challenge dealing with the warrior caste flaw.


Clanbook: Assamite
78


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
79
Chapter Three:  
Sons and  
Daughters of Haqim
 We few, we happy few, we band of brothers
For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
Shall be my brother
— Henry V, Act IV, Scene iii
Three castes. Four factions. A hundred tongues. 
Ten thousand years of history.
With all these factors, categorizing the Children 
of Haqim becomes an impossible task. Nevertheless, 
some attempt it. The following characters may be 
seen as representatives or as exceptions, depending on 
the view any given observer takes. Some are ready to 
play, fresh from the Mountain and ready to prove their 
worth — just season their histories and Traits. Others 
have witnessed the passage of countless centuries and 
should not be trifled with, lest they drain the interloper 
dry and leave his desiccated corpse on a mountainside 
as a warning to others.


Clanbook: Assamite
80
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Bravo
DEMEANOR: Rogue
CLAN: Assamite (warrior) 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Bogeyman
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Resources
Obfuscate
Quietus
Blood
Bogeyman
Quote: Change of plans, sweetheart — we’re going on a 
little trip. Don’t scream and I won’t stick this chair leg through 
your heart and carry you out in a laundry bag. My friends want 
something from your sire and you’re our bargaining chip.
Prelude: Some very rich people live in the lawless nooks 
and crannies of the world. Many of those rich people have 
families, and you became quite rich by finding out just how 
much some of those family members were worth. Sometimes, 
Daddy thought you were bluffing and you buried a little corpse 
in an unmarked grave. More often, Husband Dearest figured 
out that you were serious and got his wife back none the worse 
for wear. You were a professional in a very small trade full 
of amateurs. You never damaged the merchandise until the 
third refusal to pay, you never worked two jobs in a row in 
the same country, and you never went back on an agreement.
Occasionally, you took contract work, more for the va-
riety than the pay. Your last job, for instance. A drug war of 
some sort or another was heating up in Afghanistan, and one 
faction figured that their rivals would back off if the opposing 
leader’s son was threatened. The pay was good — heroin was 
better than cash in the places you traveled — and the job was 
challenging but not too dangerous.
The kidnapping itself went down smoothly. You slipped 
past the security in the drug lord’s compound, came in through 
the teenager’s window while he was sleeping, and hit him with a 
tranq dart. Ten minutes later, you were driving away. An hour after 
that, you were airborne and en route to your drop site in Kashmir.
Thirty miles from the airstrip, your target got up, walked to 
the cockpit and jabbed the dart into your neck. When 
you woke up, your target was sitting on 
your chest with your gun stuck in your 
face. He’d been a test, he explained, 
and you’d passed. Now you got to 
work for him and his organization.
Concept: You used to be a pro-
fessional kidnapper, making people 
disappear and then returning them for 
the appropriate fee. Now you’re making 
vampires disappear — some of them get returned, 
and some of them permanently vanish into 
the depths of Alamut. You’re rather fond of 
your new abilities, though the loss of freedom 
bothers you from time to time. You liked being 
an independent agent, and you’re still pulling the 
odd independent job to keep your hand in.
Roleplaying Hints: It never costs anything to 
be polite. In fact, it tends to get more cooperation 
from the people who hire you, the elders who 
occasionally “ask” you to pull missions, and even 
your targets. You’ve distanced yourself from any 
moral issues that might arise from what you do 
— it’s just a way to get leverage over others by 
placing something that they value in danger. 
Of course, you’d never make yourself vulner-
able by actually caring about someone else.
Equipment: tranquilizer pistol, stun 
gun, chloroform and rags, stakes, duct tape, hand-
cuffs, lock picks, glass cutter, manuals for various manufacturers’ 
security systems, van with bolts and shackles in the cargo bay


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
81
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Bogeyman
Assamite (warrior)
11th
Bravo
Rogue
Obfuscate  x 2(Cloak of Shadows,
Mask of 1000 Faces)
Quietus x 2 (Silence of Death,
Scorpion's Touch)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
Genial
Intimidating x 2
Attentive 
Patient
Rational
Shrewd
Brawl x 2
Investigation
Melee x 2
Brawny
Ferocious x2
Nimble x 2
Security
Stealth
Contacts x 2
Generation x 2
Resources x 3
Path of Blood
Rugged 
Vigorous
Vigilant
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Circuit Rider
Assamite (warrior)
11th
Loner
Conformist
Celerity (Alacrity, Swiftness)
Quietus (Silence of Death)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified
Diplomatic
Persuasive
Alert
Insightful
Intuitive
Knowledgeable
Brawl 
Craft, Drive
Etiquette
Dexterous x 2
Quick
Tough
Firearms
Melee
Streetwise
Contacts x3
Generation x 2
Influence (Street x 1)
Resources x 3
Tireless x 2
Reflective
Vigilant
Wise


Clanbook: Assamite
82
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Loner
DEMEANOR: Conformist
CLAN: Assamite (warrior) 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Circuit Rider
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Influence
Resources
Celerity
Quietus
Circuit Rider
Quote: Cincinnati to Nashville? Not a problem. Give me 
half an hour to gas up and meet me downstairs with the package. 
I should have it there by dawn, though the I-71 construction’s 
going to make it tight.
Prelude: You’ve always had a thing for the solitude of 
the highway. It didn’t matter where you had to be as long as 
you had gas in the tank and a road in front of you. You started 
driving for a law firm when you were in high school, running 
documents over summer vacations. After graduation, your 
former employers offered you a college loan. You stuck out two 
years of pre-law before deciding that forty years of office work 
would kill you faster than hitting an overpass support pylon. 
The next semester’s tuition paid for a security driving course 
and shooting lessons, and two months later you were a certified 
bonded courier. A year’s work paid off the loan, another two 
paid off your car, and then you were your own man.
You stayed with legitimate work, despite 
some tempting offers to play mule. Drug-
running was too risky — even if you 
didn’t go to jail, you’d lose all your 
licenses. But you saw a pattern in some 
of the jobs you got. There was a regular 
medical run, Baltimore to New York 
to Boston and back, with sealed refrig-
erated cases moving between nameless 
industrial parks on very tight deadlines. 
You asked some discreet questions, more to 
be sure you weren’t carrying anything illegal 
than out of any personal curiosity. 
One of your inquiries wasn’t discreet 
enough. Your employers decided that you 
were too valuable to their operation to 
kill, so they let you in on the secret.
Concept: You’re a secure 
courier, moving packages 
and passengers and the oc-
casional document that’s too 
sensitive for transmission. 
You were Embraced about 
six months before the 
Schism, and the Cama-
rilla seemed much more 
appealing than a bunch 
of genocidal techno-
phobes with too many 
guns. Of course, no 
few princes are leery of 
telecommunications 
themselves, so now you’re 
carrying a lot of personal 
communications between 
cities like a glorified Pony 
Express with fangs.
Roleplaying Hints: If 
you’re not behind the wheel, 
chances are good that you want 
to be. You’re full of nervous energy, 
always ready to go somewhere you 
haven’t been before and see new roads. 
You take your driving very seriously — 
after all, it’s what defines you 
— and you don’t take unnec-
essary risks (though you’ve 
gotten very good at tak-
ing the necessary ones). 
Your vehicles are always 
perfectly maintained and 
you’re a little territorial 
about them — anyone 
who rides with you had 
better strap in, shut up, 
hang on and let you 
do your job.
E q u i p m e n t : 
driving gloves, cel-
lular phone with 
headset, Palm VII with 
GPS mapping accessory, 
sheaf of road maps 
you’ve annotated, 
concealed weapons 
permit, bonded cou-
rier’s license, lifetime 
AAA membership, Glock 22, 
all-wheel drive Eagle Talon, 
Jeep Grand Cherokee with 
security modifications, extensive 
collection of driving music


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
83
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Director
DEMEANOR: Survivor
CLAN: Assamite Antitribu (warrior) 
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Tactical Coordinator
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Black Hand Membership
Retainers
Celerity
Obfuscate
Quietus
Tactical Coordinator
Quote: Team two, you’re behind schedule. If you can’t fix that flat, 
steal another car and get moving. I need you in position before the art show 
ends and all the Degenerates scatter. Team three, police radio indicates 
multiple units responding to a bar fight in your area. Relocate five blocks 
north and hole up in the construction site at Seventh and Magnolia. We 
can’t afford any exposure until Carpenter’s pack starts their diversion.
Prelude: You started off as a light infantry platoon leader in the 
Army, where you learned how to move men like chess pieces with 
only a radio and your mental situation map. After you got out, you 
went into law enforcement, quickly becoming one of the SFPD’s best 
crisis managers. You worked as a SWAT team coordinator for five 
years, until a barricaded hostage situation went horribly wrong and 
you lost four officers and over a dozen civilians. The Internal Affairs 
investigation was swift and merciless, and you were bounced from the 
force in short order. You worked as a dispatcher for a county depart-
ment in Texas for a while, until your history caught up with you and 
they cut you loose. After that, you drifted south, working odd security 
jobs until an arms merchant in the 
Yucatan hired you to run his 
private army.
After a while, your 
boss farmed you out to 
some of his colleagues. 
You had a few twitch-
es about some of these 
folks, but you weren’t 
a cop any more. Be-
sides, the money salved 
a lot of conscience 
pangs. By 
the time you ran your first wet-work op, the complete 
destruction of a mining magnate’s estate and every 
living thing on it, you’d come to enjoy the power 
of field command. You had two dozen men with 
automatic weapons responding to your every order, 
killing anything you pointed them at. When you 
asked your boss where you’d be working next, he 
smiled and said, “We’re invading Corpus Christi.”
Concept: Inducted into the Black Hand 
within months of your Creation Rites, you’re a 
natural paramilitary leader — something the Sabbat 
desperately needs these nights. Anyone can pull a 
trigger, but it’s the rare individual who can coordinate 
the trigger fingers of six rival packs spread across 
an entire Camarilla-held city. You rarely meet the 
vampires you’re ordering around — they’re just lists 
of names and talents and voices on the radio. Your 
most valuable assets are your visualization skill and your 
voice. The former allows you to keep a complete mental 
picture of everything that’s happening in your operation, and 
the latter is smooth and trained enough to communicate 
clearly through even the worst static or firefight noise.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re a meticulous planner, but you 
know when to throw away the book and improvise. Always 
keep in mind that the first rule of command is to always act like 
you’re in control of the situation, even when everything’s going to 
shit. Be properly respectful to your superiors, but take no crap from an 
uppity Lasombra nomad who thinks he’s qualified to plan a city assault 
because he’s seen all three Die Hard films. You don’t have any regrets 
about what you used to be — the Creation Rites took care of those.
Equipment: radio headset, cellular phone, night vision goggles, 
SWAT tactical armor, Beretta 92F, AK-47, battered Land Rover with 
radio repeater, two ghoul bodyguards with stolen police uniforms


Clanbook: Assamite
84
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Tactical Coordinator
Assamite Antitribu (warrior)
13th
Director
Survivor
Celerity (Alacrity)
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows,
 Mask of 1000 Faces)
Quietus (Silence of Death)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding x 2
Dignified
Intimidating x 2
Alert x 2
Discerning
Knowledgeable x 2
Observant
Academics x 2
Firearms x 2
Intimidation
Quick
Tenacious
Wiry
Leadership x 2
Melee
Retainers x 3
Shrewd 
Magnetic
Persuasive x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Contract Lawyer
Assamite (warrior)
13th
Traditionalist
Judge
Obfuscate  (Cloak of Shadows,
 Mask of 1000 Faces)
Quietus  (Silence of Death)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
___ _______  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
Diplomatic
Eloquent
Mental
Dedicated
Observant x 2
Knowledgeable x 2
Brawl
Expression
Law
Agile
Enduring
Energetic
Leadership
Melee, Politics
Subterufge
Allies x 3
Influence (Legal x 1)
Resources x 3
Shrewd
Persuasive x 3
Witty
Legal x 3


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
85
Contract Lawyer
Quote: What? You want me to kill someone for you? Out of the 
question. I don’t do that sort of thing. It’s uncivilized. (pause) However, 
I do happen to know several individuals who occasionally undertake that 
sort of distasteful employment, and I’d be happy to connect you to one 
of them... for a percentage of the commission, of course.
Prelude: You were always a very proper girl (some said “pe-
culiar”). The elegance of an organized system appealed to you. It 
didn’t particularly matter what the system was — mathematics, 
music, computers, business — if you could analyze it and see how 
its component parts worked together to create a whole greater than 
their sum, you were happy. You almost became an accountant, but 
a good scholarship offer led you into the legal profession instead. 
As soon as you passed your exams, you went into criminal prosecu-
tion, determined to bring order to a chaotic world.
Three years in the Hamburg courts ground you down to a 
shred of your former self. Every day brought a new atrocity, a new 
beast in human skin in the courtroom. You couldn’t see yourself 
making any difference in the world. One night, 
over drinks with a few colleagues, you realized 
what you were doing wrong. Rather than 
attempting to enforce order, you should be 
reinforcing it. You took a leave of absence 
and began studying contract law. Within 
six months, you were working for one of 
the largest arms manufacturers in Germany, 
writing contracts for billions of marks.
During particularly tense nego-
tiations with a Middle Eastern 
corporation, one of 
their repre-
s e n t a t i v e s 
approached 
you with a 
very lucra-
tive offer. 
He’d stud-
ied your 
w o r k , 
he said, 
and ad-
mired 
t h e 
clarity 
a n d 
precision with which you stated your side’s terms in an agree-
ment. His company could use someone of your talents to represent 
them when dealing with various Old World powers that had 
little respect for Arabs. The salary offer was twice what you’d 
considered asking him for. The health plan that came later wasn’t.
Concept: The Assamites’ warrior caste has long had a 
reputation for performing mercenary work, be it bodyguarding, 
assassination, or more esoteric tasks. Someone has to represent 
those warriors’ interests to ensure that they aren’t disgraced 
by unfavorable terms or trapped in a no-win contract. You’re 
a professional negotiator, and you usually turn a tidy profit by 
brokering deals that would never have come about without your 
assistance. With the Schism, you’ve become dispossessed, but 
you still maintain a wide enough net of contacts to negotiate 
contracts for warriors on all sides of the dispute.
Roleplaying Hints: You see yourself as a necessary interface 
between the “service providers” of the warrior caste and the 
“clients” who require their assistance. Always put forth a proper 
professional image and sneer condescendingly at anyone who 
doesn’t understand the terms of your contracts. You’re definitely 
on the side of the Children of Haqim (though not on the side 
of any particular clan faction). This lends you a little bit of ar-
rogance — you may not be a killer by nature, but lots of your 
friends are, and they’d be very displeased if anything happened 
to the man who gets them work.
Equipment: crocodile-skin briefcase, obscenely expensive 
wardrobe, folders full of blank contracts (assassination contract, 
bodyguard contract, security consulting contract, psychological 
warfare contract...), IMI Desert Eagle .50 (never fired), cell 
phone with a dozen other warriors’ numbers on speed dial
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Traditionalist
DEMEANOR: Judge
CLAN: Assamite  (warrior) 
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Contract Lawyer
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Influence
Resources
Obfuscate
Quietus


Clanbook: Assamite
86
Character Assassin
Quote: My prince, I am but a recently released neonate and 
foolish enough to overstep myself by approaching you without a formal 
audience. But I overheard words in Elysium tonight that I felt it my 
duty, as your loyal subject, to bring to your attention immediately.
Prelude: The youngest child of a Saudi oil magnate, you 
were born into wealth and privilege the likes of which most 
people would have difficulty imagining. From the time you 
were old enough to sneer, you were hobnobbing with the elite 
of the Middle East and the Mediterranean basin, jet-setting 
across Europe and Southwest Asia with royalty and would-be’s. 
As you grew older, you realized that wealth, once it passes a 
certain point, becomes irrelevant — a mere tool with which 
to acquire other tools. The real 
currency of the world is reputa-
tion and credibility.
By the time you were 
done with prep school, you 
were intimately acquainted 
with half a dozen nations’ 
halls of power. Your 
father’s connections 
allowed you access to 
embassy receptions and 
corporate events wher-
ever he did business, 
and you began to build 
your personal power. 
People hung on your 
every word, vying for your company, and that was a good start. If someone offended 
you, a carefully placed sentence could blacklist him for years. It was all a game to 
you, and you excelled at it.
Midway through university, however, you grew bored with your pastime. 
Something was lacking, and it took you several months to realize what it 
was: a goal. You could make most people yours with a few minutes of con-
versation and the promise of future favors, but you didn’t have any grand 
plan toward which to work.
Then one night at an art show in Tel Aviv, someone offered you the 
chance to move to the next level of your game. When you accepted, you 
found a whole new set of rules — and, within them, a goal.
Concept: A former dilettante, you’re still something of a spoiled 
rich brat. Your sire Embraced you in the hopes that you’d be able to assist 
him and his allies in making inroads into the Camarilla’s closed society, 
and you’ve performed admirably so far. However, you’re beginning to 
lose faith in the “grand scheme” that he proposed to you, and you’re 
looking for ways to cement your own personal position in the city. The 
Camarilla suits you far more than Alamut ever could have.
Roleplaying Hints: Sneer when things go your way. Pout when 
they don’t. Despite their lack of hormones, many younger vampires 
are still susceptible to your raw sex appeal, and, of course, the mortals 
still are. You can play the status games of Elysium far better than many 
Camarilla neonates can, and prestation is a better weapon than a 
rifle. You’re obsessed with social dynamics, with the give and take 
of favor trading. If the scales aren’t exactly balanced in your eyes, 
you’ll do whatever it takes to even them — or gain the upper hand.
Equipment: What do possessions matter? You buy whatever 
you need when you need it.
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Judge
DEMEANOR: Bon Vivant
CLAN: Assamite  (vizier) 
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Character Assassin
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Fame
Generation
Herd
Influence
Resources
Status
Auspex
Quietus


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
87
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Character Assassin
Assamite (vizier)
12th
Judge
Bon Vivant
Auspex x 2 (Heightened Senses,
Aura Perception)
Quietus x 1 (Silence of Death)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
___ _______  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Alluring
Beguiling
Elegant, Witty
Alert
Clever
Creative
Observant x 2
Brawl
Expreasion x 2
Ettiquette
Graceful x 2
Steady
Intimidation
Melee, Occult
Subterfuge
Fame x 1
Generation x 1
Herd x 3
Influence (High Society, x 1, Media x 1)
Eloquent
Expressive
Ingratiating
Resources x 4
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Archaeologist
Assamite (vizier)
8th
Architecht
Visionary
Auspex x 3(Heightened Senses,
Aura Perception, The Spirit's Touch)
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
___ _______  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified x 2
Diplomatic
Insightful
Knowledgeable x 3
Observant
Patient
Academics
Melee
Linguistics x 2 (Arabic, Sandskrit)
Enduring x 2
Energetic
Quick
Occult x 2
Survival
Contacts x 2
Fame x 1
Generation x 5
Resources x 1
Wise
Tough


Clanbook: Assamite
88
Archaeologist
Quote: Well, it’s not Second City vintage... but it just may 
be from Carthage. See the symbol etched into the tablet here? It’s a 
derivative of a certain Brujah elder’s personal sigil. Now hand me 
that trowel. And watch where you put your hands — sometimes 
they wake up.
Prelude: There’s something about holding a piece of 
history in your hands, watching it come alive again, gradu-
ally cleaning it and reassembling it and finally letting it go 
out into the world on display. It’s almost like raising a child, 
and you have lots of children out there, scattered from New 
York to London to Cairo to Bombay to Bangkok.
Your last trip to the Arabian Peninsula 
was to be your final expedition before you 
returned to teaching for another five years. 
You were determined to make this one 
count, to bring back the find that would 
secure your place in the history books. 
Satellite radar had identified a complex of 
previously undiscovered ruins, and your team 
was to be first on site.
Three weeks of digging yielded little of sub-
stance: a few pots, some household tools, nothing 
significant. Your colleagues began to despair, 
but you remained resolute. Certainly the 
next chamber, the next shattered 
house, would yield something. Your 
certainty drove you to work through 
the nights, sleeping for a few hours 
at the height of the day’s heat before 
forcing down another tasteless meal 
and plunging back into the dust.
Then, beneath the tumbled 
walls of a temple to a forgotten god, 
you found a crypt, sealed for count-
less centuries before a chance 
shifting of rocks had broken 
its lid. Taking a flashlight and 
a video camera, you eagerly 
descended, heedless of the dead 
air and hazardous footing within.
And then you were not 
alone in the darkness. An iron 
grip seized you and pinned you 
against the walls, and icy thoughts 
probed your mind. Then a voice spoke, 
harsh from a millennium of disuse, in a 
tongue you’d only studied in theory. It 
made you an offer: your obedience and 
your knowledge of the modern world in 
exchange for all the answers for which you’d 
never even known the questions. Of course, 
it already knew your answer.
Concept: You only consider yourself a 
Child of Haqim in an academic sense. You’re 
doing much the same thing now that you did 
when you were alive, but your assistants have 
to carry more of the load. Every so often, 
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Architect
DEMEANOR: Visionary
CLAN: Assamite  (vizier) 
GENERATION: 8th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Archaeologist
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Fame
Generation
Resources
Auspex
Obfuscate
your sire calls on you for an 
exchange of knowledge. You 
explain a part of the world 
that it doesn’t understand, 
and it gives you the key to 
another era of history it 
watched unfold. It seems 
to be working toward some 
goal — you wish you could 
piece together what it is.
Roleplaying Hints: 
You’re no two-fisted adven-
turer like that Jones fellow in 
the cinema. Leave that foolishness 
to the warriors — your prey is 
knowledge, and the ravages 
of time are your enemy. 
Cainite politics bore you. 
You’ve fallen in with these 
Camarilla chaps because 
they provide enormous 
amounts of funding, and they 
have the pull to keep those 
Setish fellows off your back.
Equipment: rucksack, 
sleeping bag, pick, shovel, vari-
ous smaller excavating tools, 
lantern, notebooks, maps, handheld 
GPS, crumpled grant confirmation let-
ters from three museums


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
89
Pariah Dog
Quote: Go find your own alley. This one’s mine. Want 
to fight for it?
Prelude: You were born on the street of New Delhi — 
literally on the street, if your mother’s half-coherent stories 
were to be believed. Your earliest memories were of the legs 
of passersby and a begging bowl that was as empty as your 
stomach. As you grew older, you learned how to do more 
than beg. First came theft, mainly picking pockets or snatch-
ing food from street vendors’ carts. Then came fighting, the 
gradual result of more beatings than you could count. And 
when you got good enough at fighting, you learned to kill 
anyone who threatened you or your family.
You weren’t good enough to save them from the monsters, 
though. During the last rainy season, you heard stories of 
things in the night, avatars of the gods come to punish the 
wicked. You shrugged them off as more of the things that 
drunk old men said — until you came home one morning to 
find your mother and sisters strewn about the shack like so 
many broken dolls. You couldn’t pay the priests for funeral 
rites, so you simply set the hut on fire and prayed for the first 
time in your life.
Two nights later, your own luck ran out when you walked 
into the middle of a fight between the monsters. One of them 
grabbed you and tore your throat open — so you bit it right 
back. You were going to die anyway, right? Except you didn’t. 
Well, almost didn’t.
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Survivor
DEMEANOR: Rogue
CLAN: Assamite  (vizier) 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Pariah Dog
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Retainers
Animalism
Auspex
Celerity
Quietus
Concept: You’re a street kid through and through. Your 
Embrace was an accident, the result of a sloppy and desperate 
feeding by a Child of Haqim fighting for his life against... 
something else. You’ve only met one other vampire since, 
and the conversation lasted just long enough for you to get 
the most basic information on what you are. She told you 
that India is no longer hospitable to your kind, and you’re 
thinking about moving west. After all, one dirty street is as 
good as another.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re uneducated, illiterate, un-
washed and half-feral, but you’re not stupid. You’re just used 
to surviving in conditions that would turn most American 
street people pale. “Future” is a difficult concept for you be-
cause you’re so accustomed to focusing on “tonight.” Were 
you left to your own devices, you’d 
be quite content to eke out a 
night-to-night existence on 
the streets, assaulting low-
caste mortals for blood and 
money. You’re obsessed 
with your own safety, 
but you’re also a curi-
ous sort, which may 
lead you into run-
ning with a coterie 
to learn more about 
what you are. 
E q u i p -
ment: rusty 
knife, two 
stakes, three 
ghoul pa-
riah dogs, 
b u r l a p 
sack full 
of stolen 
odds and 
ends


Clanbook: Assamite
90
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Pariah Dog
Assamite (vizier)
13th
Director
Survivor
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
Auspex (Heightened Perceptions)
Celerity (Alacrity)
Quietus (Silence of Death)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Ingratiating
Persuasive
Alert x 2
Cunning
Intuitive
Vigilant
Animal Ken
Brawl x 2
Occult
Quick x 2
Resilient
Stalwart
Stealth
Streetwise
Survival
Generation x 2
Retainers x 3
Tireless x 2
Vigorous
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Witch-Hunter
Assamite (sorcerer)
11th
Conformist
Bravo
Assamite Sorcery (Lure of Flames x 2,
Hand of Flame, Flame Bolt)
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows)
Quietus (Silence of Death)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified
Intimidating
Persuasive
Determined
Discerning
Discipline
Rational
Academics
Firearms
Melee
Agile
Dexterous x 2
Lithe
Occult x 2
Streetwise
Subterfuge
Generation x 2
Herd x 2
Mentor x 2
Robust
Tenatious x 2
Path of Blood
Shrewd


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
91
Witch-Hunter
Quote: We can do this the easy way or the hard way. It 
doesn’t matter much to me. Just choose how much pain you want 
to die with. I know exactly how much you can endure.
Prelude: You first became aware of vampires in college. 
Actually, they tried to recruit you. The instructor for the 
evening section of Anatomy & Physiology you were taking 
was a pallid, sickly-looking old fellow who had a reputation 
for being rather eccentric. When he asked you to meet him 
in his office for a “conference,” you were expecting some 
sort of homosexual proposition. Instead, you were treated 
to a display of something he called “thaumaturgy.” Then he 
offered you an apprenticeship. When you refused, he tried to 
do... something... to you. It didn’t take, and you ran.
You spent the rest of the semester a nervous wreck, 
sleeping during the days and spending the nights barricaded 
in your room. Your grades plummeted due to nonattendance, 
and you really weren’t surprised when the school expelled 
you. With nowhere to go, you drifted downward, taking a 
series of dead-end night jobs that kept you around enough 
people to lend the illusion of safety.
Two years later, you were tending bar in Marrakesh 
when you saw a familiar face come through the door. You 
almost dropped the bottle and bolted for the back door, but 
your former professor’s eyes met yours and you knew you’d 
never make it in time. You grabbed a bar towel with some 
half-formed thought of making a Molotov cocktail, but be-
fore you could find a matchbook, someone else struck. The 
windows blew in with a deafening thunderclap and a flash 
of lightning and suddenly a man-shaped torch was shrieking 
and flailing in the middle of the room. As the bar emptied 
in a panic, you simply stood there and watched as the thing 
you’d been running from for two years burned.
As the flames died, you felt a presence at your shoulder. 
Before you could turn, a voice whispered in your ear, “If you 
want to spend the rest of your life waiting for his friends to 
appear, walk away. If you want to learn how to keep the 
world safe from them, come with me.”
Concept: A former medical student who stum-
bled onto the existence of vampires through sheer 
misfortune, you were ripe for recruitment 
with the right offer — the opportunity to 
strike out against humanity’s Cainite 
parasites. You’ve thrown your-
self into your studies with a 
fervor that impresses Children 
of Haqim who have centuries 
more experience than you, 
and you’ve already slain two 
Tremere blood-witches in single 
combat. The warlocks are your fa-
vored targets, both because your former 
nemesis was one and because of the threat they 
represent to your clan.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re a fanatical 
convert, but you’re not a stupid one. You know 
when to restrain yourself and when to go all-out. Many 
Camarilla neonates have met you without ever realizing 
what you were or how much you wanted to scatter their 
ashes. Some part of you still bemoans your lost humanity, 
and you’ve resumed your medical studies when time 
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conformist
DEMEANOR: Bravo
CLAN: Assamite  (sorcerer) 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Witch-Hunter
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Herd
Mentor
Assamite Sorcery
(Lure of Flames)
Obfuscate
Quietus
permits in the vague 
hope of making a posi-
tive contribution to the 
mortal world.
Equipment: flare pistol, 
Nomex gloves, paramedic’s kit, 
medical texts, notebooks full 
of observations on oth-
er vampires, stolen 
Thaumaturgical 
paraphernalia 
that you don’t 
understand 
yet


Clanbook: Assamite
92
Prophet of Caine
Quote: Do not despair, my brethren! For even though 
our ranks are lessened, we grow stronger through our traitorous 
cousins’ weakness! Know that any who fall tonight will arise to 
fight again on the Final Night, and we will prevail, for our cause 
is that of freedom!
Prelude: You were barely a man when the Master came 
to your village, as he had every fourteen years for genera-
tions. You never expected to escape from the simple life of a 
shepherd and barely believed that the Master was more than 
a tale your mother had told to frighten you. But when your 
turn came to stand before him and gaze into the mirror he 
held, you did not see your own face but the image of a burning 
mountain. Then the Master passed his obsidian hand across 
your face and the vision faded. “You will learn,” he said, and 
took you away. And for eight years, you learned.
Your first year as a Child of Haqim had barely passed 
when ur-Shulgi awoke and rent the Tremere curse like a rag. 
You felt the horrible surge of power singing in your blood, 
and you knew the true strength of the immortals. And if 
ur-Shulgi was truly Haqim’s herald, then you could never 
heed the Ancestor’s will, for Allah could not forgive you if 
you turned away from him. So you ran, ran far enough 
that your sire’s voice in your head could not call 
you back, ran fast enough to elude the hounds 
that the Eldest set to bring down all those like 
you. And when you were starving in Milan, 
penniless and desperate and unable to even 
speak the local language, the Lasombra who 
found you extended a merciful hand, showed 
you the glory of the Sabbat and told you of 
the Antediluvians’ treachery.
And Allah will forgive you for 
your studies of Caine’s power. Does he 
not command you to seek knowledge?
Concept: You are a dual anomaly 
within the Sabbat: an Assamite sor-
cerer and a Muslim. Most Noddists 
approach the Path of Caine with 
European or Christian assump-
tions; your interpretation 
of many of its tenets and 
early historical facts from 
an Islamic perspective 
brings you into frequent 
debate with more tra-
ditional scholars. 
Your packmates 
question some of 
your beliefs, but 
they recognize you 
as the spiritual heart of 
the pack.
R o l e p l a y i n g 
Hints: You’ve seized 
upon the Path of Caine 
as a complement to, not 
a replacement for, your 
faith. The Sabbat is the 
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Fanatic
DEMEANOR: Director
CLAN: Assamite  Antitribu(sorcerer) 
GENERATION: 9th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Prophet of Caine
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Rituals
Sabbat Status
Assamite Sorcery
(Path of Blood)
Quietus
Caine
family that the Children of Haqim never 
were, and you are fully devoted to the fight 
against the Antediluvians. You prefer to 
concentrate on the Assamite loyalists, as you 
have more personal experience with the threat 
that Haqim’s pawns pose — the Camarilla 
is purely a secondary consideration, 
though one you’re willing to take 
into account if it’s suggested.
Equipment: dog-eared 
copy of the Qur’an, photo-
copied sheaf of Noddist 
research material, 
heavy shipping case 
full of materials for 
auctoritas and ig-
noblis ritae, prayer 
rug, paperback 
Arabic-English 
d i c t i o n a r y, 
AK-74 with 
folding stock, 
two frag-
mentation 
grenades


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
93
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Prophet of Caine
Assamite (sorcerer)
9th
Fanatic
Director
Assamite Sorcery Path of Blood x 2,
A Taste for Blood, Blood Rage)
Quietus (Silence of Death,
Scorpion's Touch)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
Charming
Commanding x 2
Clever
Insightful
Reflective
Brawl
Expression x 2
Intimidation
Enduring
Energetic
Steady
Leadership
Occult x  3
Rituals x 3
Generation x 4
Tenatious
Wiry
Path of Caine
Expressive
Magnetic
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL
SELF- CONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Cleaner
Assamite (sorcerer)
13th
Perfectionist
Bravo
Assamite Sorcery (Weather Control (fog))
Obfuscate (cloak of Shadows)
Quietus (Silence of Death)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Eloquent
Empathetic
Commanding x 2
Alert x 2
Clever
Knowledgeable
Observant
Brawl, Occult
Empathy
Medicine
Toug
 Nimble
Steady
Science (Meterorology)
Streetwise
Subterfuge
Allies x 2
Contacts x 3
Fame x 1
Herd x 2
Persuasive x 2
Magnetic
Influence (Health 1,
Street x 1)
Resources x 2


Clanbook: Assamite
94
Cleaner
Quote: Jimmy, I swear to God, if you make me come down 
here one more fucking time, you’re gonna be drinking your dinner 
through a straw for a month. Now shut your yap and grab that 
mop. You made one grand-high motherfucker of a mess here and 
I’m not wiping all this shit up by myself.
Prelude: When you were a kid, you laughed at all the 
movies about the mob. None of the Hollywood image was 
true. Anyone who’d been that careless wouldn’t have lasted a 
week in the organization. The name of the game is deniability: 
don’t get caught. And from the word “go,” you were eminently 
deniable. Your baby face was a constant source of irritation, 
but it made you look innocent enough to avoid scrutiny. A 
few acting courses in college (don’t laugh, a straight guy in 
a drama class gets more ass than a toilet seat) put the polish 
on an already impressive ability to bullshit your way out of 
nearly any situation.
You started off doing smalltime work, a little bit of money 
laundering here and some enforcement there. One night, you 
got a panicked call from Frankie Angelou, who had a stiff on 
his hands and the heat on his tail. You did some fast planning 
and gave Frankie a roundabout route to take to your place. 
While he was on the road, you were stealing the ten-point 
buck that your neighbor had dressed out and hung from the 
tree in his back yard. You swapped the deer for the corpse 
and sent Frankie home with eighty pounds of venison and 
your granddad’s hunting rifle in his car. That explained all 
the blood soaked into the car. Then you made a quick run 
by a chemical plant in your old neighborhood and found a 
half-full waste drum to ditch the dead dude in.
After that, you were in business. People came to you 
when they had shit to hide. Bodies, guns, cars, drugs, money, 
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Perfectionist
DEMEANOR: Bravo
CLAN: Assamite  (sorcerer) 
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Cleaner
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Contacts
Fame
Herd
Influence
Resources
Assamite Sorcery
(Weather Control)
Obfuscate
Quietus
Caine
girls... once you made an 88-foot yacht vanish, and you’re 
never telling how you pulled that one off. When a dead guy 
walked into your office with a new job offer, you laughed 
at him. Then he showed you a few tricks that made you sit 
up and take notice. Disappearing from plain sight? Gimme 
some of that.
Concept: When you were Embraced, your first priority 
was covering up the evidence of the warrior caste’s violent 
episodes. Now you’re working for an archon, covering up 
Masquerade breaches — which makes for a lot more work, 
but a lot more variety. Nothing but ashes and bloodstains was 
getting tiring. You still keep in touch with the organization, 
because they’re family, and the occasional exchange of favors 
isn’t out of the question.
Roleplaying Hints: You talk a lot of shit, but you really 
do know what you’re doing. Mafia connections make for a 
certain amount of image and intimidation factor, though 
people keep thinking you’re one of those Giovanni assholes. 
Give everyone around you good-natured (or plain malicious) 
verbal abuse if there’s no crisis to deal with, but you’re all 
business when the hammer comes down. The irony of working 
for what amounts to a Camarilla cop doesn’t escape you, and 
you’re rather sarcastic about that.
Equipment: body bags, bone saw, 
sledgehammer, industrial cleaning 
chemicals, stolen keys to the back 
doors of various useful places 
(landfill, incinerator, mortuary...), 
rubberized lab coat and boots, 
box of surgical gloves, black 
suits, black Cadillac, black 
sunglasses, cellular phone, police-
band scanner, Ruger P95


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
95
The Heirs of Haqim
Reapers of the Whirlwind 
(Significant Warriors)
Jamal, First Martyr of the Schism
Jamal rose to prominence among the Children of 
Haqim in the late 12th century. Already an elder then, 
he had been involved in the Holy Land’s long history 
of warfare since his breathing days, when he came from 
sub-Saharan Africa to follow the Prophet’s call. Later, he 
led the warriors who participated in the establishment 
of the Abbasid caliphate. Jamal made his haven in the 
Abbasid capitol of Baghdad until the crusades, when 
he moved west to take the field against the French. 
During the centuries of battle, he distinguished himself 
as a leader as well as a master swordsman and archer.
During the Anarch Revolt, the Eldest sent Jamal 
to destroy the Tzimisce elder Dracula, who opposed the 
Tzimisce alliance with the Children of Haqim. Jamal 
disappeared for nearly a century, returning to Alamut 
bearing the scars of a vicious battle. He spoke to no one 
save the du’at and the Eldest of his defeat, and none of 
those parties ever made the details public. Five years 
later, after the signature of the Treaty of Tyre, the Eldest 
committed ritual suicide to expiate his shame. Jamal, 
then the oldest active fourth generation Child of Haqim, 
assumed the Black Throne in 1497.
Jamal proved a cunning and effective Eldest, though 
his open practice of the Muslim faith troubled many Path 
of Blood adherents who could not reconcile the tenets 
of a mortal religion with those of their own codes. The 
Eldest had no such difficulty, reminding many warriors 
that Allah, like Haqim, is merciful and just to those 
who deserve such considerations.
In the end, Jamal’s faith proved to be his undoing. 
When ur-Shulgi arose, the current Eldest was the first Child 
of Haqim to whom the Shepherd appeared. Jamal refused 
to recant his faith in favor of utter devotion to Haqim. Ur-
Shulgi staked him, displaying Jamal’s impaled body above 
the Black Throne for a month before draining his blood 
into a clay vessel and scattering his ashes across the sand of 
Petra. The intended message of absolute obedience did not 
come across as well as ur-Shulgi had intended, as Islam has 
a long tradition of holy martyrs. Many Muslim Assamites 
now use Jamal’s name as a rallying cry in the Schism.
Tariq the Silent
The Camarilla fears Tariq above few other Children 
of Haqim. Perhaps their perspective would change if 
they knew of ur-Shulgi’s existence and agenda — but 
perhaps not. No other Cainite has occupied a place 
on the Red List for as long as Tariq, nor has any other 
Assamite received credit or blame for the destruction 
of more Camarilla vampires.
The Sabbat, too, fears Tariq, but for different reasons. 
His capture by the Tremere antitribu was the last major 
accomplishment of that bloodline before its destruction. 
Several archbishops suspect Tariq of, if not slaying the 
Tremere antitribu single-handedly, then at least playing 
a key role in their destruction.
In truth, Tariq would have slain Goratrix’s entire 
band of followers if he could have, but other matters 
occupied his attention at the time. The Seraph Djuhah, 
himself an Assamite antitribu warrior, had assigned a 
pack of his childer and grandchilder to follow Tariq, 
obeying his every command as if it came from the 
Seraph himself. This fostered the impression among 
the Sabbat that Djuhah had accomplished the feat of 
recruiting Tariq to the Sabbat cause, which in turn gave 
Djuhah the political leverage necessary to establish other 
permanent Black Hand units and cells.
While this tactic was highly effective for four years, 
buying Djuhah no small amount of maneuvering room, 
it eventually ended in disaster. One of Tariq’s “follow-
ers” was an overly loquacious individual. Fascinated by 
Tariq’s reputation, she approached him, engaging him in 
repeated one-sided conversations despite his inability to 
respond. Over the course of several months, she allowed 
enough of Djuhah’s scheme to slip for the broken-spirited 
Tariq to piece it together. The night after the realization 
struck Tariq, the pack awoke to find him gone. Two weeks 
later, Djuhah’s ghouls found his remains pinned to the 
wall of his study with a spear through the left eye socket.
Tariq’s current whereabouts and loyalties are un-
known. Ur-Shulgi is doubtless interested in securing 
the allegiance of such a renowned warrior, but all at-
tempts by Alamut’s sorcerers to locate him have met 
with failure. Tariq has not appeared in any Camarilla 
city since Djuhah’s death, nor have any Sabbat reported 
encounters with him.
Fatima al-Faqadi
Like her sire, Thetmes, Fatima al-Faqadi was widely 
regarded as one of the most proficient killers among the 
Children of Haqim. Like her sire’s long-time rival, the former 
Eldest Jamal, Fatima was unwavering in her dedication to 
Allah for the state of her soul, taking Haqim as merely her 
guide for affairs on earth. Combined with her oft-denied 
love for the Lasombra elder Lucita, these factors led to her 
estrangement from her sire near the end of the crusades. Since 
then, Fatima has operated largely as a free agent, returning 
to Alamut only when compelled by the bonds of loyalty.
Fatima’s last contact with Alamut was shortly after 
the Breaking. She returned at the request of al-Ashrad 
to evaluate the training of several neonates and to grudg-
ingly accept an assassination contract on the Lasombra 
Archbishop Ambrosio Monçada. During her execution 
of the contract, Fatima received a warning from her sire 
that she must choose between Allah and Haqim or face 
destruction at the hands of the Eldest. Fatima executed 
her contract, then vanished, not even returning to Alamut 
to claim her reward. Ur-Shulgi subsequently declared 
Fatima to be a renegade, subject to destruction at the 
hands of any Child of Haqim who could bring her down.


Clanbook: Assamite
96
This distinction causes Fatima little distress. Af-
ter a year’s meditation in a cave near Mecca, during 
which Lucita was her only visitor, she has reconciled 
her conflicting loyalties and renewed her commitment 
to follow Allah as her undead condition permits. The 
former Hand of Vengeance has vowed to find her own 
truth in Haqim’s teachings and is reportedly attempting 
to contact the mysterious Inconnu in hopes of dealing 
with any ancient Children of Haqim among their ranks. 
She currently considers herself dispossessed, maintain-
ing neutral relations with al-Ashrad himself but none 
with his schismatic followers. Those loyalists who have 
attempted to engage her have found themselves staked 
and shipped to Baghdad with the warning “mercy is 
sharper than any knife” ringing in their ears.
Thetmes
Background: As a young man, Thetmes was con-
scripted into Ptolemy’s army to fight against Cleopatra 
and her Roman allies. After Ptolemy’s defeat, many of 
the survivors of his forces were sent to Rome to fight 
in the gladiatorial games. Thetmes found a talent for 
single combat that had eluded him in the chaos of the 
battlefield. As his star rose, the young Egyptian caught 
the eyes of many wealthy spectators. After changing 
hands several times, Thetmes found himself in the em-
ploy of a Syrian cloth merchant who extended him the 
opportunity to kill all the Romans he could ever want. 
Thetmes eagerly agreed and began his indoctrination 
into the Web of Knives within the year.
By the early 12th century, Thetmes had risen to lead 
the Web of Knives through a combination of skill and 
opportunity. He had not confined himself to Web busi-
ness during the intervening centuries. Indeed, few warriors 
who had seen more than a century did not know him. To 
many, Thetmes epitomized the popular stereotype of the 
Assamite assassin: He was no longer a soldier or a gladiator, 
but rather an artist whose chosen craft was death. Every 
new warrior, Thetmes believed, had something to teach 
him, and he had some knowledge to share in return.
With this outlook, few were surprised that Thetmes 
was appalled by the disastrous assault on Vienna in 1529, 
which saw the destruction of nearly thirty warriors and a 
dozen sorcerers. He returned to Alamut and challenged 
the Caliph with the words, “a thrice-blinded Salubri 
healer with the leadership skills of a camel could com-
mand the rafiq better than you.” The resulting unarmed 
duel lasted for precisely the amount of time required for 
Thetmes to shatter each of the Caliph’s major joints 
into dust before twisting his head from his shoulders 
and presenting the crumbling skull to Jamal.
During Thetmes’ tenure as Caliph, he was constantly 
at odds with the Eldest. Thetmes never adopted Islam and 
saw Jamal’s adherence to the Muslim faith as an affront 
to Haqim’s own glory. Many among the silsila believed 
that only the common bond of warrior caste blood kept 
Thetmes from challenging Jamal for the Black Throne. 
However, he never censured any warrior of lesser rank 
who professed Muslim beliefs, stating that “in the end, 
only you can tend to your own soul as you see fit.”
Thetmes disappeared from view soon after the 
appearance of ur-Shulgi. For a time, he was rumored 
to have been destroyed in a manner similar to that in 
which Jamal perished, though none could say what 
Thetmes could have done to offend the new Eldest. More 
recently, rumors have placed him on a variety of covert 
missions for the Eldest. Many warriors claim to have 
encountered him shortly before or immediately after 
making decisions as to where they stood in the Schism.
Image: Thetmes carries himself like a hunting cat: 
eyes constantly in motion, body perfectly still, ready 
to spring into action at a moment’s notice. Some have 
compared his mannerisms to those of ur-Shulgi, and they 
are not far wrong. His natural features are those typically 
ascribed to Egyptians and other North Africans, but he 
often prefers to blur them with Obfuscate. Likewise, he 
often lightens his jet-black skin with cosmetics when 
dealing with non-Assamite vampires, downplaying his 
age and clan in order to create a false sense of security.
Roleplaying Hints: You are ur-Shulgi’s right hand 
in preparing the Children of Haqim for the Ancestor’s 
return. This is not the blind obedience you see in some 
of your younger subordinates, but rather a carefully cal-
culated position based on a thousand years of dealings 
with other vampires. You are occasionally troubled by 
the gaps in your personal experiences. One of the many 
periods you spent in torpor spanned the point at which 
Haqim left the clan for the last time, and the fact that 
you were never able to offer him your respects grates 
on your conscience. In some way, you feel that service 
to his herald will atone for this shortcoming.
If a Child of Haqim feels the need to separate him-
self from Alamut, allow him to go — he has made his 
choice, and eventually he will suffer for it. To those who 


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
97
are still questioning their loyalty, be as accommodating 
as your considerable patience allows you to be, giving 
them any guidance they may beg of you. You only want 
allegiance based on reason, not that which comes from a 
moment’s passion or a mercenary’s hunger for power and 
wealth. On the rare occasions when you deal with other 
vampires, allow them one chance to prove themselves 
honorable. If they do so, treat them with all the respect 
you would show to a fellow Child of Haqim — within 
reason, of course. If they do not, disabuse them of any 
notions of equality they may possess.
Sire: Sha’hiri
Nature: Visionary
Demeanor: Fanatic
Generation: 5th
Embrace: 25 B.C.
Apparent Age: early 20s
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 6, Stamina 5
Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 6
Talents: Alertness 6, Athletics 4, Brawl 4, Dodge 4, 
Expression 3, Intimidation 4, Leadership 7, Subterfuge 2
Skills: Archery 5, Etiquette 2, Firearms 2, Melee 7, 
Performance 4, Security 1, Stealth 5, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics (Path of Blood) 6, Investiga-
tion 4, Linguistics 4, Medicine 2, Occult 2, Politics 3
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Celerity 6, Fortitude 4, Obfuscate 
6, Potence 4, Presence 2, Quietus 8
Backgrounds: Allies 8, Clan Prestige 8, Contacts 8, 
Herd 3, Influence 2, Retainers (ghoul mercenaries) 8
Virtues: Conviction 5, Self-Control 4, Courage 5
Morality: Path of Blood 8
Willpower: 8
Janni
Background: Janni was born in 1947, one of the 
first children of the new Jewish homeland. Her father’s 
stories of the Shoah inspired her to make her own vow 
of “never again,” and she became involved in patriotic 
youth groups as soon as she was old enough. Her fervor 
and natural intelligence brought her to the attention 
of the nascent Israeli intelligence services, and Shin 
Bet recruited her during her first year of college. Her 
later accomplishments brought her to the attention 
of another force as well, and a Persian warrior elder 
Embraced her in 1970.
Abandoned by her sire when she refused to adopt 
the Path of Blood, Janni quickly associated herself with 
such notables as warrior Amaris bat Ariela and sorcerer 
Gerhardt von Eich. She quickly proved to have a natural 
aptitude for weapons of all types, from slings to guided 
anti-tank missiles, earning the coveted warrior caste 
title of “Master of Weapons” within five years of her 
Embrace. Her utter refusal to back down from her beliefs 
(even after being beaten into torpor several times) and 
her innate proficiency with the tools of warfare earned 
her the respect of the newer generations of warriors, 
and the personal regard of several hundred Assamites 
provides considerable political leverage.
Oddly enough for one of her rock-solid faith, Janni 
has not declared schismatic allegiance in the wake of ur-
Shulgi’s appearance. She remains loyal to Alamut, though 
she continues to pursue her own agendas across the Middle 
East, forsaking the pursuit of Camarilla blood over the 
destruction of Setites and the occasional Lasombra. For 
its part, ur-Shulgi seems oddly tolerant of this ascendant 
neonate and has not yet summoned her to Alamut to pro-
fess her allegiance to Haqim above all others. Indeed, the 
Eldest has mentioned Janni in passing when asked about 
possible candidates for the title of Caliph to replace the 
absent Thetmes. “In a century or three,” it says, and makes 
an expression that would be a smile on another being.
Image: Janni is of strong Mediterranean blood: dark 
eyes, wavy dark hair, dark skin. She can fit in virtually 
anywhere except the Far East. With a few adjustments 
to her posture, clothing, hair and expression, she can 
appear to be any age between 14 and 45. She typically 
wears street clothes suited to Western middle-class 
fashion unless the situation calls for something else.
Roleplaying Hints: The Shin Bet gave you the 
opportunity to destroy the enemies of your people. The 
Assamites promised you the opportunity to destroy the 
enemies of all people. To be sure, you’ve had some chances 
to do so, as your drawstring bag full of Setite fangs proves, 
but many of the Children of Haqim seem to have lost 
sight of the lofty ideals they aspire to, and you’re under 
a great deal of pressure to fight the clan’s enemies rather 
than your own. You’re having difficulty with your dual 
loyalties, and nightly you pray for guidance.
Of course, you don’t allow any of this to show on the 
outside. As far as anyone you meet is concerned, you are 
perfectly composed, precisely prepared and eminently 


Clanbook: Assamite
98
capable. When not taking on a temporary identity (not 
your favorite thing, to be certain, as you slip away from 
your own self too easily), you prefer to spend your time 
on the streets of Tel Aviv among students like you used 
to be. There’s always a chance that a former colleague 
will recognize you, or a new Shin Bet operative will 
know your face from a memorial wall, but you consider 
that an acceptable risk to stay in touch with the reasons 
you accepted the burden of immortality.
Sire: Anastasius the Axe
Nature: Perfectionist
Demeanor: Architect
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1970
Apparent Age: anywhere from late teens to early 40s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 5, Wits 2
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 2, 
Empathy 2, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Archery 4, Drive 1, Etiquette 1, Firearms 5, Heavy 
Weapons 3, Melee 4, Performance (piano) 5, Stealth 1
Knowledges: Academics (mathematics) 4, Investigation 
3, Linguistics 3, Medicine 2, Science 1
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Celerity 3, Fortitude 1, Obfus-
cate 2, Quietus 1
Backgrounds: Allies (other neonates) 5, Clan Prestige 
4, Contacts 2, Mentor (various elders) 5, Resources 3
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 5 (but slowly dropping)
Willpower: 9 (but, likewise, slowly dropping)
Companions to Owls 
(Significant Viziers)
Mata Hari
Margareta Gertrud Zelle was born in Holland during 
the late 19th century. Daughter of a Dutch shopkeeper 
and his Javanese wife, she was thrown out of teaching 
school for having an affair with the headmaster. At 18, 
she married a Dutch naval officer and moved to the 
Dutch East Indies with him, bearing him two children 
before divorcing him in 1905. She then relocated to 
Paris, taking the name Mata Hari (“Eye of Dawn”) and 
the identity of a Javanese princess and debuting as an 
erotic dancer.
During the Great War, French intelligence agents 
recruited Mata Hari to spy on the German crown prince, 
with whom she was personally acquainted through her 
dancing. However, during her journey to Germany via 
Spain and Holland, her ship was stopped and she was 
interrogated by British officials. The British warned 
her that her mission was compromised and that she 
should return to Spain. Upon doing so, she entered into 
an affair with the German military attache to Spain. 
When her lover tired of the affair, he betrayed her to 
the French by sending a message to Berlin praising her 
value as a double agent, using a code that he knew the 
Allies had cracked.
Mata Hari was arrested upon her return to France 
in January 1917. Despite the lack of direct evidence 
against her, French and British counterintelligence 
agents had amassed sufficient circumstancial evidence 
to conduct a closed court-martial. She was found guilty 
and sentenced to death.
The night before her execution, Mata Hari received 
a visitor in her cell: a distinguished Turkish officer whom 
she knew from her performances at the Oriental Studies 
Museum in Paris. He confessed that he had been0smitten 
with her from the first night he saw her and that such beauty 
should not be wasted by mere mortal authorities. When 
she stood before the firing squad at dawn, she refused a 
blindfold and blew the men a kiss before they fired. Other 
soldiers, ghouls of her sire, hastened her fallen form away 
before the sun could fully rise over the walls of the prison.
Since that day, Mata Hari has been one of the viziers’ 
most valued spies within Cainite society, feeding the clan 
information on the most sensitive affairs of immortals 
across the globe. The talents that life never gave her a 
chance to develop have blossomed fully in death, and she 
is now one of the Kindred world’s most adept infiltrators. 
A mistress of disguise and improvisation, she has a score 
of identities within the Camarilla, the Sabbat and various 
independent clans and sects. One of her many faces holds 
the princedom of a city in the American Midwest, while 
another leads a Black Hand pack in Chile and a third 
enjoyed a brief stint on the Red List before her “destruc-
tion.” All sides of the Schism claim Mata Hari as a loyal 
member, and all of them may be correct.
Tegyrius
Background: In his breathing days, Tegyrius rode 
with Alexander the Great’s armies. A former cavalry 
officer, he was forced into working as a tribune and mer-
cenary liaison officer when his mount fell and crushed 
his leg. He received the Blood from a nameless Child 
of Haqim who claimed to remember the nights of the 
Second City and the role the judges had played. Tegyrius 
took such a role for himself, wandering the world for 
centuries, serving as an anonymous neutral arbiter in 
countless Cainite and mortal disputes. Some ancient 
Ventrue and Malkavians remember his presence in the 
court of Justinian, watching as that emperor codified 
Roman law. Other Cainites remember his presence at 
later events: the bloody battles over Constantinople, in 
which he prowled among lesser vampires like a hunting 
wolf, slaying with apparent contempt for his victims.
After the sack of Constantinople in 1204, Tegyrius 
served one term as Vizier before disappearing for several 
centuries. Some reports placed him in torpor in a forgotten 
sewer of Rome, while others stated that he had gone east 
in search of the knowledge that Saulot had once found 
there. Whatever the case, he reappeared in France in the 
late 17th century in the company of the surviving members 


Chapter Three: Sons and Daughters of Haqim
99
of his Byzantine-era coterie. After settling whatever busi-
ness had brought together that disparate group of elders, 
he journeyed to Alamut at the request of the Vizier to 
claim the Seat of Dust and Bone on the Council of Scrolls.
In 1801, the viziers again elected Tegyrius to lead them. 
He remained at Alamut for most of the following two centu-
ries, though the latter half of the 20th century saw him make 
sporadic trips to the World Court in the Netherlands. The 
abrupt drop-off in vizier involvement in the 1927 and 1990 
elections reportedly discouraged Tegyrius, and he entered 
month-long torpors on many occasions.
Ur-Shulgi’s awakening and subsequent assumption 
of power galvanized Tegyrius to action. While reverence 
toward Haqim was acceptable to the Vizier, blind worship 
of him as a genocidal god went against every legacy of 
the Second City. Shaking off the lethargy of centuries, 
he conspired with al-Ashrad to confront the Children 
of Haqim with the proof of their long-ignored heritage 
as judges and defenders of the mortals. Many Children 
on both sides of the Schism consider him to be one of 
the primary architects of that rift.
Tonight, Tegyrius is firmly entrenched in the 
schismatic camp. His exact whereabouts are unknown, 
presumably as protection against ur-Shulgi’s loyalists, but 
his hand is visible in every Camarilla city that welcomes 
the schismatics. Some viziers who were close to Tegyrius 
before his assumption of the Vizier’s mantle whisper that 
one of his ancient associates now sits on the Camarilla’s 
Inner Council and al-Ashrad’s bid for Camarilla alliance 
would have failed had it not been for the Vizier’s con-
nections. To date, no one has had the courage to directly 
inquire as to the truth of these rumors.
Image: Tegyrius still maintains the short pointed 
beard he wore in life. He was Embraced near the end of 
his military career, and the gray hair in his beard and at 
his temples stands in sharp contrast to the pure black of 
his skin. He still walks with a slight limp, the result of a 
shattered thigh that never healed properly, but centuries 
of practice allow him to minimize its effects. Tegyrius 
is a master linguist and any accent that a listener can 
detect in his speech is a conscious choice on his part.
Roleplaying Hints: You are ancient, and the recent 
conflict within your clan is one of the few things that 
can capture your interest long enough to keep you from 
slipping into torpor out of sheer lethargy. For the present 
night, you’re intent on securing the Children of Haqim’s 
position within the Camarilla, and you will do whatever 
is necessary to preserve the tenuous alliance. If anyone 
asks your opinion on a matter that requires more than a 
moment’s thought, you tend to become lost in yourself 
as you cite countless precedents and historical minutia. 
You’re not exactly senile — more like overloaded — but 
that’s the impression you give at times.
The only other thing that truly captures your at-
tention is a military matter. You were a soldier in life, 
and you still consider yourself one — and to their own 
personal choice of hells with any warrior who says dif-
ferently! Anyone who discusses military history with 
you finds an adept and willing mentor, so long as they 
refrain from slighting any of the great generals with 
whom you claim personal acquaintance.
Sire: unknown
Nature: Judge
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Generation: 5th
Embrace: 330 B.C.
Apparent Age: late 20s
Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 5, Stamina 6
Social: Charisma 6, Manipulation 6, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 7, Intelligence 6, Wits 7
Talents: Alertness 6, Athletics 4, Brawl 4, Dodge 5, 
Empathy 6, Expression 2, Intimidation 8, Leadership 
8, Subterfuge (Cainite politics) 7
Skills: Archery 7, Crafts (blacksmith) 7, Drive 1, 
Etiquette 7, Firearms 1, Melee 7, Stealth 2, Survival 6
Knowledges: Academics 8, Investigation 8, Law 8, Linguis-
tics 8, Military Science 7, Occult 8, Politics 7, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 8, Celerity 7, Dominate 3, Fortitude 
6, Obfuscate 2, Potence 4, Presence 5, Quietus 8
Backgrounds: Clan Prestige 7, Contacts 8, Influence 
5, Resources 5, Status 3
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 4, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 3
Willpower: 8
Brothers to Dragons 
(Significant Sorcerers)
Nar-Sheptha
Background: Nar-Sheptha, curator of the Great 
Library for three centuries, was the first Assamite sorcerer 
to conduct extensive experiments into harnessing the 
power of lightning. This Babylonian princess met Final 


Clanbook: Assamite
100
Death in her ninth century of unlife when an attempt 
to harness a storm spirit went horribly wrong, leaving 
only a small pile of ashes fused into the sandstone of her 
laboratory’s floor. The embittered survivors among her 
apprentices removed that section of floor and placed it in 
the Great Library in the Gallery of Folly, a small chamber 
in which the sorcerers and viziers keep various reminders 
of the misfortunes that can befall a careless magician.
In early 1999, Sarah Schneier made contact with 
the remaining consciousness of Nar-Sheptha, using that 
sandstone block as a material link. On Final Death, 
Nar-Sheptha’s soul had not gone on to the usual Cainite 
reward, but had instead remained suspended in the skies 
over Alamut, victim of a last cruel jest by a vengeful 
spirit. Schneier promised Nar-Sheptha an escape from 
limbo, though the alternative might not be much to 
her liking. The Babylonian, seeing a release from over 
a millennium of boredom, agreed readily.
Schneier powdered the chunk of sandstone flooring, 
using alchemy to incorporate its dust into the CD-ROMs 
that she was using to store as much of the Great Library’s 
contents as she could. She then bound Nar-Sheptha’s 
consciousness to the disks and charged her with their pro-
tection. The spirit agreed readily; her centuries as physical 
guardian of the Great Library had predisposed her toward 
such a task, and she had never been fond of ur-Shulgi. 
Tonight, Nar-Sheptha serves as the final means by which 
the schismatic sorcerers protect their portable tomes from 
the predations of outsiders who would steal their secrets, 
though she is unwilling to directly strike at other Assa-
mites. This has allowed the Loyalists to recover eight sets 
of disks. However, Nar-Sheptha recognizes that, because 
she is now irrevocably bound to the disks, their destruction 
is hers as well. Thus, she retaliates with her full strength 
against any attempt to harm a set. She is also known to 
hunt down and “chastise” Schismatics who are careless 
enough to allow “her” disks to fall into the wrong hands.
Nar-Sheptha the Guardian
Note to Storytellers: the following Traits are meant as 
guidelines, not absolutes. All Storyteller characters should 
be able to do whatever your plot requires them to do — and, 
more importantly, should be unable to do whatever your plot 
requires them to be unable to do. However, Nar-Sheptha is a 
special case, because she’s the disembodied soul of a former elder 
vampire, which is something that none of the usual rules cover.
Nar-Sheptha was a sixth generation Assamite 
sorcerer at the time of her discorporation. Her current 
form allows her access to little of this power with the 
exception of her knowledge of blood magic. She is im-
mune to nonaggravated physical damage save for area 
effects (say, those which would affect a cloud of blood 
droplets, such as an industrial exhaust fan). If she is 
reduced to the Mauled health level, she will attempt 
to flee into “her” disks, which takes her one full turn.
For purposes of Discipline use and healing, Nar-
Sheptha has the blood pool and expenditure limits of 
a sixth generation vampire. She typically replenishes 
this through the use of Theft of Vitae. She is immune 
to Dominate, Presence and blood bonds, though she is 
susceptible to Disciplines and blood magic effects that 
deal with spirits, such as the Path of Spirit Manipula-
tion. She still has the mentality of a vampire and thus is 
capable of frenzying. She cannot make physical attacks, 
and she is subject to normal limits on Discipline use in a 
turn. Her Celerity rating is for movement purposes only. 
In noncombat conditions, she can make fine manipula-
tion attempts using her listed physical Attributes. The 
Abilities given below are those to which she has access. 
Skill with a sword matters little when you can’t wield one.
Image: A swirling cloud of blood droplets that occasion-
ally manifests in an approximately humanoid shape. When 
Nar-Sheptha speaks, it does so through telepathic contact 
rather than actual vocalization. Its mental “voice” sounds 
like that of the most feared woman in the listener’s life.
Nature: Traditionalist
Demeanor: Bravo
Physical: Strength 1, Dexterity 1, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 1, Manipulation 2, Appearance 0
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 5, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 3, Dodge 2, Empathy 1, Intimidation 
5, Subterfuge 2
Skills: Etiquette 2
Knowledges: Academics 4, Computer 1, Linguistics 7, 
Medicine 3, Occult 5, Science 1
Disciplines: Assamite Sorcery 7, Auspex 4, Celerity 4, 
Presence 2, Quietus 5, Serpentis 1
Assamite Sorcery Paths: Hands of Destruction 2, Lure 
of Flames 5, Movement of the Mind 3, Neptune’s Might 
4, Path of Blood 5, Path of Technomancy 2, Spirit 
Manipulation 3, Weather Control 5
Virtues: Conscience 0, Self-Control 2, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 1
Willpower: 6


™
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated
Easily Addicted to Vitae


™
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:______________________________
TotalSpent:____________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon           	
Damage	 Range	
Rate	
Clip	
Conceal
Armor
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
Havens Description
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch
Age_________________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair________________________________________________________________________________
Eyes_________________________________________________________________________________
Race________________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex________________________________________________________________________________


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-56504-256-5
WW2359  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
