TM


Contents
1
™
By Jess Heinig
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Tremere
2
Credits
Written by: Jess Heinig
Developed by: Justin Achilli
Editor: Cynthia Summers
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten
Interior Art: Eric Hotz, Leif Jones, Alex Shiekman, Chris-
topher Shy, Drew Tucker
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten
Special Thanks,  
Hellvis Edition
Chad “Patsy’s Patsy” Brown, for withstanding the Smellvis 
serenade.
Richard “Let’s Share This Drink” Thomas, for finding himself 
screwed out of seven eighths of the kamikaze.
Brian “Lug” Glass, for his help dragging the humiliated-to-
be onto the “stage.”
Phil “Honorary Redneck” Boulle, for learning what passes 
for entertainment down here in the States.
Fred “The Drama” Yelk, for trying to crush the compassion 
from his girlfriend’s roommate.
Yeesh
The bathroom on the day after the whole debacle.
© 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Re-
production without the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for 
blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal 
use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire 
the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, World of Darkness and 
Aberrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith 
the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckon-
ing, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, 
Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Children of the Night and 
Clanbook Tremere are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and 
text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product in 
these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright 
concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and 
themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction 
and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader dis-
cretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Contents
Introduction: Enlightened By the Darkness	
4
Chapter One: The Price of Immortality	
10
Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid	
24
Chapter Three: Stones of the Pyramid	
70
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Tremere
4


Enlightened by the Darkness
5
Enlightened By 
the Darkness
Sometimes I feel caught between two distinct worlds — the one that we all see and agree to acknowledge, 
and the one that some lizardlike primordial portion of our brains understands only subconsciously. We move 
about through the common world and accept it as normal because peeling back the layers underneath would be 
too much to bear.
I spent much of my life reinforcing the common world: stage magic, sleight-of-hand, debunking para-
normal phenomena and the like. Rational explanations exist for everything, I used to say, and I’d go to great 
lengths to find them. Of course, such an explanation may not be plausible, but we’re oh-so-sure of our ability 
to define our little world that we’ll gladly throw out sensibility in the interests of turning the unexplained into 
something that we can rationalize as “scientific” and “logical.” Occam’s Razor doesn’t support that notion, but 
people would rather believe anything far-fetched as long as it proves that they’re not insane and that the world 
works in terms they understand. 
Let me give an example: People don’t believe in vampires. A huge body of literature surrounds them; 
stories, movies and television shows regale us with their exploits; tales of the undead go back as far as an-
cient Africa and Sumeria; and they have roots in the folktales of just about every culture in the world. But 
everybody knows that vampires aren’t real. The notion of something that comes back from the dead and 
drinks blood to survive — ludicrous! The idea that a monstrous beast might live forever in a cursed existence 
devoid of sunlight or hope — absurd! The very thought that something out there might work in ways that 
humans don’t understand, might defy the very order of existence that people take for granted, might prey 
upon humans, influence them, prowl among them, surpass them — no, humans are the pinnacle of creation. 
We certainly can’t upset that notion. If humans are just cattle, if they can die meaninglessly just to satiate the 
perverse whims of malevolent monstrosities, well, that’s enough to upset anyone’s notion that we’re in charge 
of our own destinies.
I’d done a show circuit and associated work for a couple of years. I’d tour through big towns and give 
performances of stage magic, illusion and prestidigitation. I also made it a policy to always debunk one trick 
per show. Other professionals hated that, but audiences enjoyed it, so it guaranteed that I could put asses in 
seats. On the side, I’d teach to curious kids, investigate odd stories, sometimes even show up on a television 
spot to debunk a claim of psychic powers or supernatural phenomena. I’d see a report about some freak occur-
rence, and immediately my mind would go into overdrive figuring out how it worked, how it happened, how it 
could be made to look real and how I could duplicate it. In some ways I loved the convolutions, but even more, 


Clanbook: Tremere
6
I think I enjoyed bending these phenomena to my understanding. I’d couch them in simple, easily explainable 
terms, show how they were all hoaxes, and leave with the satisfaction that the world still fit my perceptual box. 
Charlatans, liars and hucksters were the people I left behind. I suppose in a way I felt better than them — the 
world worked the way I said, and if they wanted to hang on ridiculous notions like “faith” and “parapsychol-
ogy” and “magic,” then they obviously weren’t as smart and educated as I was.
Anyway, my tour took me inevitably to New York, the third bastion of trashy show antics right after Vegas 
and Hollywood. Broadway’s looking old these days, and when you’re off-off-Broadway, in the slums and 
ghettoes and crack-houses of late-night entertainment television, you know it. Everybody there has two gim-
micks and an agent. My latest job: Run a quick show circuit, then hook up with a camera crew and debunk a 
“haunted” house for Hard Copy or A&E.
The show wasn’t so much the important part. It went as I’d expected: levitate an assistant, create silk 
scarves from nowhere, walk through a brick wall and so on. The usual prestidigitation gave way to a tired 
old evening; I got my makeup squared again and headed out with the camera crew in a van to the “manor of 
ghosts.” Ooh, spooky. I felt like some ridiculous extra from The Sixth Sense, for Chrissakes.
The house itself was suburban, maybe ‘50s style, probably built in the economic boom after World War 
II. Had a bit of surrounding yard; stood by itself in the midst of an otherwise boarded-up, apartment- and 
package store-ridden neighborhood. It didn’t look haunted, just tired. I quipped as much to the camera, witty 
me. The house’s interior was much the same: dusty, creaky, deserted, with the occasional bit of odd rubble, a 
flapping sheet or a weird water stain. Nothing out of the ordinary, but certainly the sort of things that could be 
taken by superstitious or thrill-hungry neighborhood kids as “evidence” of haunting.
I spent two days going over that damn house. Not a single spook ever reared its head, either in person or 
on infrared camera. The camera crew mostly filmed a lot of my smarmy commentary about gullible people.
Matters got weird after the job. I’d packed up the last of my investigative gear — heat sensors, compasses, 
field detectors, all in compact, neat little gray metal cases without extraneous flashing lights or the like — 
when we received a visitor. The sun had already set; I’d hoped to go home earlier, but the camera crew had 
insisted on a couple of spooky night-time shoots. I was heading out the front door to put the remainder of my 
things in the van when a woman’s voice startled me from behind.
“Excuse me.” 
Simple words, but they scared the hell out of me. I’d just debunked a tired old house that didn’t have a 
single bit of real strangeness about it, and some voice from behind me managed to chill my skin and make my 
neck hair stand on end. I turned rather too quickly and noted a tall woman in a severe business suit stand-
ing on the porch, right next to the wall, just where my eye would’ve missed her as I came out the front door. I 
managed to calm my nerves.
“Can I help you? We’re just leaving,” I commented off-hand.
The woman took two steps toward me. For some reason, my stomach knotted up and my mouth dried. My 
skin still felt a little chilled, even under my casual “make the audience feel comfortable” sweater.
The woman adjusted her narrow glasses and gave me an even look before she continued, “I’d just like the 
chance to talk with you for a moment.”
I sighed. “If it’s about the permits, the guy in the van’s got them. The house is abandoned and the network 
squared everything. If it’s about the magic show, you can talk to my agent. I’m afraid I’m really tired tonight. 
Sorry to be a jerk, but I just want to get home. Long day.”
The woman raised an eyebrow, and I adjusted my stance a little. I felt uncomfortable but I couldn’t place 
why — like she was a cop or a tax auditor or someone who’d caught me in the middle of a mischievous act, 
and she was going to enjoy raking me over the coals. She took another step up and added in a slightly softer 


Enlightened by the Darkness
7
voice, “No, I was following your work and your investigation. I wanted to discuss your methods — one profes-
sional magician to another, you could say.” Under the wan porch light, I noted that she seemed a little older 
than she’d first appeared. The yellow light made her look gaunt and sallow, and the severity of her hair and 
clothing style just added to the effect of a skeletal schoolteacher. “I’m sure you could spare a few minutes for 
me,” she added.
I put my tool case on the ancient wooden chair that decorated the patio without even realizing that I’d 
done so. “A few minutes, I suppose,” I said, somewhat bemused. The woman had piqued my interest in a mor-
bid sort of way.
“Good,” she smiled at me. Strangely, her edgy smile didn’t set me any more at ease. “Obviously, you dis-
covered that there’s absolutely nothing special about this house — but that’s to be expected. I’d found the same 
when I first looked into it two years ago. I’m more interested, actually, in the one in Austin — the one where 
you got those hazy images on camera.”
“What about it?” I crossed my arms. “Just like this place — old, decrepit, nothing spectacular. The heat 
images came from the improper insulation and ducting. Any contractor could take you from ‘haunted’ to hab-
itable in about a month.”
She shook her head as if I’d made a mistake. “A good theory, I thought, but you didn’t follow up on it. You 
should’ve checked the insulation instead of just dismissing it out of hand.”
I snorted. “Did you miss the bit where we went over the ducting? Wind shear across the roof and into 
the ducting made a pressure differential in the large rooms; that means movement of hot and cold air bodies. 
Simple.”
The woman took a more casual stance and answered, “Of course, but hot air moves upward. That third 
image you caught moved sideways.”
“Wind motion,” I countered, starting to enjoy the debate. This was just the sort of argument that I often 
had with so-called psychics and sorcerers. It’s not so much in the data, as in how you interpret it. “Besides, 
you know as well as I that glass doors heat and cool at a different rate than the rest of the walls. That means 
different radiant properties.”
“Good, good,” she murmured, again reminding me strangely of a teacher. “Still, you didn’t check. You as-
sumed, and you know what they say about that.”
Somewhat annoyed at the presumption, I picked up my toolbox. “Look, I’ve got to be going. Take my card, 
and we can continue this discussion by e-mail.” With my free hand I managed to fumble in my pocket for my 
wallet and then stupidly dropped it on the ground. I sighed, stuck the toolbox back on the chair and bent down 
to pick it up, but the woman had already beaten me to it. She offered it back to me without comment, and I 
managed to dig out a business card. I turned to look back at the van, but it wasn’t in the driveway.
“I think your friends left without you,” the woman commented wryly from behind. “I can give you a ride, 
though.” I turned back to protest but she simply said, “Come on.” She eyed me knowingly and then brushed 
right past. I shrugged and followed to her car.
The woman drove an older Jaguar — classy, tasteful, a little out of the league of what you’d expect from… 
what? She’d never actually come out and said what she did. Certainly not a stage magician, with that expen-
sive car and off-putting appearance. I sidled into the car as the night became abruptly stranger, and gave the 
woman directions to my hotel.
“So how much do you really disbelieve?” the woman asked as she drove. “Do you suspect that there may 
actually be things out there that you can’t explain rationally?”
I started to snort impatiently, but stopped and thought for a moment. “I suppose it’s possible,” I said. 
“Reason accounts for plenty, though.”


Clanbook: Tremere
8
The woman grinned — for a moment, it seemed a hideous sight in the wan light of the night’s cars and street 
lamps. “What about things outside of reason? Even modern science accepts that it can’t explain everything.”
I made a dismissive moué but answered, “Sure, but I just haven’t seen anything like that yet. I suppose you 
could say that when I manage to figure out these amateur psychics and the like, I come up with one explana-
tion. It might not be right, but it’s certainly—”
“Much more likely,” the woman finished for me.
A bit startled, I let it drop.
When we made it to the hotel, the woman asked to come up to my room to continue the discussion. I’d de-
flected enough groupie come-ons to know that this wasn’t one. By this time I wanted to pin down what exactly 
this woman was up to. If she was some sort of fraud, she was consistent, at the very least; if not, then what did 
she want? So upstairs we went.
Once inside, I shut the door, shoved my toolbox next to the nightstand and turned to discuss the heart of 
the matter. The woman had just folded and put away her glasses, and in the light she seemed to have an almost 
ghostly allure. I put on my angry face — trained actor and all — and barked, “All right, you’ve had your fun. 
Want to come out with it now?”
The woman simply nodded at me. She pinned me with her gaze, and suddenly I felt that terror again as my 
stomach knotted, but I was pinned to the spot — partly due to that fear, partly because some insanely rational 
part of my mind needed to know.
“You’ve looked for explanations in the world around you, and that’s good,” she stated, taking a slow step 
forward. “Unlike a scientist, you look at the problems that people dismiss or deride. You’re willing to place 
yourself on the line to get to the bottom of mysteries that people don’t credit. But you always fall back — you 
never want to realize the truth. You’re stuck on the edge, trying to find something out there but pulling back at 
the last minute.”
I couldn’t speak. Mouth dry, rooted to the spot, I had no words left. Somewhere in the back of my head, 
my own voice whispered, She’s going to kill you.
“I’m going to do you a favor,” she cooed, taking another step forward. “I’m going to pull back that veil, 
rid you of those doubts. I’m going to take you across the threshold, and when you’ve done that, you will never 
shy from the precipice again.” She stepped right up, looking unblinkingly into my eyes and made a slight nod 
of her head in the direction of the hotel room’s tiny wet bar. “In there,” she commanded, and while my mind 
shouted She’s insane, she’ll kill you, my feet obeyed of their own accord and carried me into the room and onto 
the tile.
The woman followed briskly and stepped around in front of me. She frowned once, still looking slightly up, 
then said again, “On your knees.” My body trembled.
“No,” I said.
The woman smirked. “A last act of defiance, I see. You have a strong will and an inquisitive mind. Let’s 
hope that your desperate search for the truth does not take them into places where you should not go… 
though I suppose one could say that it is too late for that.” Her face hardened. “On your knees!” she repeated, 
and I collapsed.
“Don’t worry,” the woman said, stroking my hair in a motherly fashion as she drew herself next to me, 
“Everybody who goes through this comes out dead, one way or another.” She kissed my neck, and a brief pres-
sure gave way to a burning ecstasy; I was suddenly aware of every thudding beat of my heart, my pulse in my 
temples, of the rush of blood through veins like silk moving across my skin. From the corner of my eye I saw 


Enlightened by the Darkness
9
blood coursing in rivulets down my shirt and spattering on the clean, white carpet. The reflected light of the 
bright hotel bulbs illuminated the floor with a glare, against which the blood — my blood — Your blood! She’s 
drinking your blood, and you’re going to die! — made deep crimson patterns and puddles, writhing across the 
thick fibers with every drip. Gasping with a drowning man’s desperation, I felt and tasted salty blood cours-
ing across my own lips. With a desperate need I choked and sucked down the blood, which seared razor-edged 
pain down my throat and into my gullet. My eyes rolled up toward the impeccably clean ceiling as I died.
•••
I awoke draped in a funerary shroud, laid on a cold slab. The darkness around me slowly gave way to 
shapes, huddled an arm’s length away. Susurrations reverberated through the chamber. I could see no light 
bulbs, no familiar walls, only a dim flicker from an oil lamp that hung from a high, vaulted ceiling. My clothes 
were gone. Only the white robe covered my body, but the coldness of the stone didn’t bother me. In a detached 
fashion, I realized that I wasn’t breathing, that the room seemed to echo a bit more loudly as if some back-
ground sound had been removed from me, and that I was thirsty.
“Arise,” a gravelly voice intoned. Again, the host of whispers rose in volume, then faded. I sat up, keenly 
aware that something was missing, fearful and desirous at the same time — almost an arousing sensation, but 
more of an intellectual lust, like the hunger for knowledge or vengeance. I wanted, but I had no idea what.
“So rise from the dead, postulant,” the voice intoned, followed by the whispers. I caught fragments of Latin 
syllables that bounced through the vault as a robed figure approached me bearing a chalice. I felt weak sud-
denly and dizzy. I steadied myself with my hands and then pushed myself off the slab.
“Will you rest forever, or search forever?” the figure asked.
My voice croaked out harshly, “I want to live.” The voice in the corner of my mind pleaded, shouted, 
gibbered, You’re dead and they’ll kill you again. You’ll die over and over and over. It trailed off weakly as I 
straightened my posture.
“Speak with me,” the figure stated. He held the chalice toward me. A scent wafted from the chalice, at once 
inviting and repulsive. I reached for it, but the figure pulled back, repeating, “Speak with me.”
A Latin sentence rolled out of the figure’s mouth. From the other figures about the room, a subtle hiss of 
whispered words followed. I stumbled over the words myself, through sentences and Latin conjugations while 
the world seemed unstable about me. At last, the man gave me the chalice and bade me drink, and with an 
unfamiliar desire rising, I swallowed from the cup.
The sluggish taste of bracken blood flooded my senses and washed down my throat, washing away hunger, 
desire and uncertainty. I felt the dead coldness of the liquid, its sour and rotten taste bringing forth a perceived 
stench of decay. About me, the robed figures waited statuelike, but I saw about them a terrible malevolence, as if 
they somehow mirrored the ancient potency of the blood I swallowed. I felt a sudden heat and pain, then noth-
ing. The chalice, empty, dropped from my lips and was quickly snatched up in the long fingers of the figure 
before me.
“You have drunk from the chalice and been reborn in our sacrament,” the figure intoned with a hint of 
impatience.
“Where… what is this?” I managed.
In the dim lamplight, one of the figures stepped forward. The woman I’d met before pushed back her hood 
and smiled at me, again in a way that put me at unease. This time, my stomach did not tighten and my back 
did not tingle; instead, I felt a slow suspicion, a creeping paranoia as she spoke. “Welcome to our circle, childe. 
You’ve crossed the threshold. Now you have much to learn.”


Clanbook: Tremere
10


Chapter One: The Price of Immortality
11
Chapter One:  
The Price of  
Immortality
Other Kindred have plenty to say about Tremere — we’re 
diablerists, traitors, demon-worshippers, baby-stealers, not 
even Kindred at all. For our part we’ve got plenty to retort 
— we’re a pillar of the Camarilla, we don’t need demons or 
bogeymen to do our dirty work, and our command of blood 
and the Curse shows that we have a better handle on the 
Kindred condition than the rest of the superstition-driven 
remnants of forgotten histories. On balance, it all comes down 
to this: Tremere are Kindred; we just tend to do our conspir-
ing a little more rapidly than others, probably because we 
haven’t had as long to establish ourselves among the undead.
Other Kindred make much of their long histories, their 
ancient cities and their founders. Too much, sometimes; the 
old ones become lost in the memories of past glories, and can’t 
keep up with the modern age. Phenomenal undead power 
or not, a Kindred who can’t pick up a telephone or puzzle 
out modern currency won’t last long in this world. Maybe 
it’s because the old ones hang on to these ancient legends 
and propagate them that the neonates buy into the stories 
about Antediluvians, lost vampire cities and redemption. 
Tremere don’t have such luxuries. We had to make our own 
history, carving it bloodily from the unforgiving Long Night. 
We became Kindred not by chance but by our own effort, 
learned their rules and made our own, found our own place 
in this deathless world and developed the skills to survive 
the withering of the magic we’d left behind.
Dying Magic
To hear some of the old ones tell it, we Tremere trace our 
roots to living magicians from the Renaissance and before. 
It’s said that once we huddled in castles or towers like the 
wizards of legend, studying hoary tomes and working spells. 


Clanbook: Tremere
12
Some Kindred among us believe that we were the only true 
magicians of the era, while others say that we were just one 
among many different groups, or even a small part of a larger 
organization — that the houses of our current structure recall 
similar factions from our origin. Regardless, we recognized 
something that the others didn’t: magic was dying. Our 
leader — the one said to be Tremere himself — foresaw the 
death of sorcery, and so turned his talents to true immortality.
Back in our earliest nights as Kindred, Tremere and his 
contemporaries realized that their magic couldn’t sustain 
them forever, but they discovered the secrets of vampirism 
as an alternative. We know that vampires have been around 
practically forever, so Tremere deduced that the undead had 
survived for so long that they had outlasted the mythic ages 
that bore them. Over the better part of a century, right around 
the turn of the millennium (that’s AD 1000), he and his as-
sistants gathered the knowledge necessary to turn themselves 
into undead. Wizards from our order consorted with Kindred 
and uncovered the power inherent to the blood, as well as 
the knowledge of clans and societies found in Europe in those 
brutal nights. The Tzimisce and Gangrel in particular aided 
such studies, though it’s said that the Tzimisce, jealous of 
our own magical prowess, turned against us. Regardless, they 
couldn’t stop the inevitable: Goratrix, one of Tremere’s assis-
tants, managed to develop a potion that simulated the other 
Kindred’s Curse of Caine. After successfully “Embracing” two 
of his own apprentices (a painful procedure, it is whispered, 
using primitive catheters and blunt cutting instruments), 
Goratrix brought the potion to Tremere and the remaining 
leaders. Etrius, Tremere’s right-hand sorcerer, objected to 
the idea of undeath, but in the end preservation won out. 
Tremere and his followers became Kindred, and slowly spread 
to convert the remainder of their order of sorcerers.
What happened to the other sorcerers isn’t clear; cer-
tainly no pointy-hat-wearing wizards still exist tonight, and 
they’ve become nothing more than myth as far as history’s 
concerned. We’re still here. Looks like Tremere’s foresight 
saved us, but the cost was (and is) high.
The Fateful Potion
Goratrix’s potion did indeed induce vampirism, but 
perhaps it’s for the best that apprentices like this one 
don’t know that such wasn’t his initial goal. Had the 
potion functioned as intended, we would have become 
immortal through the power of blood, but remained like 
humans in our physical capabilities.
The fact that the Gangrel and Tzimisce were not 
exactly willing partners in the affair can, of course, be 
chalked up to the usual vagaries of Kindred dealings.
For my part, I think that the loss of daylight is a 
small price to pay for the phenomenal power and resil-
ience we have gained.


Chapter One: The Price of Immortality
13
Medieval Warfare
As newcomers to the Kindred scene, 
the fledgling Tremere occupied a pre-
carious position. The original potions 
gifted Tremere and his circle with 
extremely potent vitae, but not 
the skill to use it. Other Tremere, 
less fortunate, had only the limited 
equivalents of weaker Kindred genera-
tions to sustain them. Without a thorough 
knowledge of Kindred potential, social 
etiquette or mysticism, the founders 
faced a difficult battle. Other Kindred 
saw easy targets in these newcom-
ers. Vampires of House Tremere faced 
prejudice and scorn among established 
Kindred, who reviled the converts as 
usurpers and blasphemers who did not 
possess the true gifts of Caine (as if the 
heritage of a crazed and murderous farmer 
is something of which to be proud). A simple 
misstep could easily spell doom for an unwary 
Tremere who didn’t know the ins and outs of 
Kindred society, especially because the Tremere 
had only limited mastery of their Disciplines 
with which to protect themselves. The situation 
quickly spiraled out of control, with Tzimisce 
in Eastern Europe encroaching upon Tremere 
chantries, Ventrue protesting the upset of 
the balance of power, and Gangrel or 
Lupines tearing to bloody shreds any 
Tremere who accidentally set foot upon 
their wild expanses.
To make matters worse, some magi-
cians didn’t take well to the conversion 
to undeath. A few actually hunted us and 
sought to destroy any vampires that they 
found. This sort of rivalry only added to the 
fact that the old forms of medieval magic (if 
they had any real longevity in the first place) 
didn’t seem to work well for converted Tremere. 
Our order had to perform more research to un-
derstand the blood and the Curse, to bend them 
to our own advantage.
The founder didn’t hesitate. With the 
formidable minds of his council, Tremere 
unearthed ways to apply old magical 
theories to the new blood. From these 
roots he developed Thaumaturgy, the 
means to shape blood and other ele-
ments by manipulating the very Curse 
that animates Kindred. Knowledge 
of Thaumaturgy spread throughout 
the clan, a replacement for the mystic arts the 
members of the house had left behind once 
they became undead. This Thaumaturgy 
— the ability to work miracles — gave 
the Tremere a means to defend them-
selves against the Disciplines used by 
other Kindred; chances were, even 
if an elder focused some incred-
ible power against the Tremere, 
a thaumaturgical counter could 
be constructed with enough 
research. This adaptability has 
since become something of 
a hallmark within the clan; 
Tremere don’t languish about 
bemoaning the old nights 
when they can develop new 
routes to personal advance-
ment.
In addition to Thauma-
turgy, the clan developed 
other assets. We made al-
legiances with individual 
Kindred who recognized 
our potential and offered to 
aid us in exchange for our 
knowledge or later consid-
erations. We developed the 
Gargoyles, servants who 
could handle the rigors of 
battle against other Kindred 
and against the Tzimisce’s 
flesh-shaped minions of de-
struction. We brought into 
the fold a small family of 
ghouls that left its unstable 
Tzimisce masters. Our forays 
into the use of ghouls and 
mortal confederates excelled; 
Tremere had long had experi-
ence in “advising” mortal courts 
as sagacious counselors or mys-
terious benefactors. Our already 
heavily defended chantries took 
some losses, but managed to repel 
the assaults of other Kindred and 
magicians alike. From the Car-
pathian Mountains westward, the 
Tremere spread, under the cover 
of shadows and beneath veils of 
sorcerous secrecy.
Over several hundred years, 
we managed to hold our assets and 


Clanbook: Tremere
14
for promises of healing or outlandish rumors like 
Golconda. Slowly, Tremere Kindred managed to 
spread into courts across Europe, hunting these 
demon-worshippers where they were found and 
gaining gradual acceptance for thaumaturgical 
skill, cunning and will. Tremere Kindred man-
aged to blend in with other Cainites and find 
an important place as advisors, aides and 
occult specialists.
Among mortals, Tremere had a 
decided advantage — as magicians, 
the early Tremere had always hid 
their predilections from mortal 
society. Turning from eccentric 
wizards into vampires simply 
accelerated the separation of 
Tremere Kindred from hu-
mans. In some places Tremere 
even managed to found potent 
herds among mortal society; 
pagan Lithuania saw the rise 
of a blood cult fostered by 
Tremere, while infiltration of 
medieval institutions of learn-
ing allowed the clan to pick 
and choose its recruits from the 
educated and erudite. Indeed, 
the clan preserved many books 
in Classical languages and made 
certain that elements from prior ages 
of learning thrived.
The Burning 
Times
As the fortunes of vampires 
improved, so too did those of the 
Tremere clan. Humanity clawed its 
way from the Dark Ages with the 
consolidation of state powers in feudal 
territories. The Church managed to 
keep alight a flame of faith and learn-
ing. Human cities grew in size, and so 
did opportunities for academia, the 
development of secret societies and 
the means to support greater concen-
trations of people (and, thus, Kindred). 
The clan established chantries far from 
its original holdings near Germany 
and Italy, even sending emissaries 
to courts in England, Spain, Nor-
way and beyond. The Council 
of Seven created offices — 
pontifices — to oversee such 
even spread to other parts of Europe. Our converts 
quickly took to Thaumaturgy, giving us an edge that 
puzzled other Kindred. Despite the constant attacks 
of foot soldiers and slavering monstrous beasts 
constructed by the Tzimisce, predatory Lupines, 
conniving Kindred and even suspicious mortal 
witch-hunters, the clan thrived. True, the Tremere 
never approached the numbers of other clans of 
vampires, but we didn’t need to. We had different 
goals and strengths. While Ventrue prosecuted 
the Crusades, or Brujah scrambled to burn down 
their own havens in the name of progress, we 
contented ourselves with our newfound im-
mortality and our occult studies.
A New Order
Politics with other Kindred didn’t stabilize 
easily. Many other Kindred were loath to accept 
Tremere’s followers as a clan, partly because 
of simple resistance to change and partly 
due to our origins as self-made undead. The 
founder realized that, in order to gain true 
acceptance, he’d need the credentials that 
made the other clans. Because each clan 
traced its roots to a mythical Antediluvian, 
Tremere had to somehow gain that stand-
ing. Unfortunately, the Antediluvians 
were long gone, mere legends from 
the histories recounted fearfully by 
Kindred who dreaded the return of 
their horrid progenitors.
Tremere and the council 
managed to track down reports of several 
ancient Kindred from a despised bloodline of 
diablerists and soul-thieves. Working quickly, 
Tremere managed to eradicate several elders of 
the line, and then find his way to the crypt of 
one of their slumbering Methuselahs. There, 
it is said that he managed to wrest away the 
strength, age and wisdom of that fiend. 
Devouring the foul Kindred’s spirit with his 
own, Tremere captured the power necessary 
to garner respect and recognition from the 
other clans. News of the deed slowly trickled 
out, and other Kindred grudgingly recognized 
Tremere’s tenacity, guile and skill.
Not all Kindred could easily be swayed by 
rumors of Tremere’s feat. Some believed the 
now-extinct bloodline to be saints or heal-
ers or sages, doubtlessly persuaded by 
the mystic talents that these Kindred 
evidenced in order to save their own 
skins. Naïve Kindred shielded fugi-
tives of the Salubri line in exchange 


Chapter One: The Price of Immortality
15
broad territories, and encouraged spread to as-yet-unknown 
Africa and Russia. Travel remained slow, due to the perils 
of long journeys and the inconvenience of nocturnal habits, 
but slow means little to beings with centuries to watch their 
plans come to fruition.
The more mortal populations swelled, though, the more 
they accelerated their own violence. Controversy regarding 
religious orthodoxy spurred clashes between Arab nations 
and Europeans, leading to a series of Crusades. Europe’s 
nobles mobilized to attack the paynim, but the fortunes of 
Saulot and Kin
Of course, what few neonates in this modern age 
realize is that Tremere managed not simply to discover 
Saulot, one of the fabled Antediluvians, but also to dia-
blerize that eminent Kindred. True, many of the Salubri 
seemed to have slipped into persecution complexes or 
the pursuit of past glories. Eradicating them proved a 
boon to all Kindred.
Rumors that Saulot somehow summoned Tremere, 
or that the demonic Ancient arranged the circumstances 
of the diablerie, are of course misguided. Kindred who 
spread such wildly inaccurate propaganda should be 
dealt with most harshly.
war drove both sides back and forth without resolution. 
Eventually, exhausted, the two sides settled into an uneasy 
holding pattern. The Christian Church, unsatisfied by its 
failure to prosecute unbelievers, turned its attentions inward, 
particularly in Western Europe. So began the Inquisition, the 
mortal uprising that would decimate Kindred society.
Inquisitors started their careers seeking out signs of 
unorthodoxy. Priests and secular witch-hunters watched 
their peers for any signs of deviation from the tenets of the 
Church, and ruthlessly stamped out heretics. Anyone who 
questioned the Church, or who seemed different or strange, 
could be a target; ruthless peasants and nobles alike betrayed 
their neighbors to the Inquisition with tales of deviltry. Little 
did the mortals know of the monsters who truly lurked within 
their midst. Once the first unfortunate undead found their 
way to the Inquisition’s flames, though, the rest were not 
long to follow.
With Pope Innocent III’s approval of torture, and the 
Inquisition’s fondness for burning, “heretics” could be easily 
culled from the general populace. Formerly inconvenient 
difficulties such as nocturnal existence or cadaverous appear-
ance suddenly loomed as beacons that set Kindred apart from 
the remainder of humanity, and thus became grave dangers. 
Even elders, formerly the uncontested rulers of their claimed 
domains, found themselves staked upon the pyres. Inquisi-
tors learned to recognize Kindred through their resistance to 


Clanbook: Tremere
16
torture and slowly unearthed the classical weaknesses of fire 
and sunlight. The Tremere, as both Kindred and warlocks, 
had perhaps the most to lose: Not only did Inquisitors flush 
us out as undead, but our chantries were seized and burned, 
valuable books were destroyed, and great troves of thaumatur-
gical knowledge lost. A few hunters, specially sanctioned by 
the Church and protected by their faith in God, even proved 
resistant to Thaumaturgy and other Disciplines, making them 
dangerous indeed. Kindred across Europe scurried for cover; 
elders who could not adapt to the times and who continued 
to see the kine solely as slaves or food perished. The entire 
social order of Kindred was upset. For the first time we truly 
realized that humanity could indeed rise up and destroy us 
all. And the blow to our pride was grave, indeed.
The Camarilla
As Kindred after Kindred perished in flames, panicked 
individuals across Europe convened hurried gatherings or 
sent cautious missives to other cities, hoping to learn how 
Kindred fared afar. The Inquisition burned its way across all 
of Europe, leaving no place to hide and destroying entire 
bloodlines. The many clans concluded that only secrecy 
through cooperation could insure survival. Just as the mortals 
banded together in masses and drew their strength from the 
fact that no lone Kindred could assault them all, the Kindred 
themselves needed to set aside their age-old differences and 
come together for mutual protection.
An invitation went out to Kindred across the continent. 
Elders would attend a convocation where they would propose 
the union that could preserve us all. By meeting in secret, 
the Kindred hoped to avoid the eyes of the Inquisition. False 
ruses and dupes drew away attention, while the Kindred met 
to decide upon a means of survival. So long as the Inquisi-
tion continued to enjoy success, it would only increase its 
efforts; every vampire burned led another hundred suspicious 
mortals to join the fray in search of more monsters. Only by 
convincing mortals that their job was finished — that no more 
monsters remained, that vampires were gone from the world 
as if they’d never been — could the Inquisition be satisfied.
The first conclaves were terrible indeed. Elders unused 
to bowing to others’ whims found that they had no choice 
but to subdue their monumental egos if they were to survive 
at all. Kindred squabbled over their centuries-nursed griev-
ances, and some clans declined to attend the gathering at all. 
Eventually, we joined the representatives of six other clans 
in declaration for this secret society. The Founders brought 
forth impressive evidence — elders around the continent, 
rooted out and destroyed; childer bringing down entire broods 
of vampires with a single misstep; lords who’d held sway over 
their lands for centuries, deposed; rampant diablerists, the 
breakdown of Kindred society, the destruction of sires at the 
fangs of their childer. Kindred knew that their entire existence 
teetered on a precipice. Naysayers found themselves ejected 


Chapter One: The Price of Immortality
17
or turned over to the Inquisition, while those who supported 
the notion of secrecy helped to withdraw from society and 
conceal the movement of Kindred among humans.
The Ventrue widely claim credit for the formation of the 
Camarilla, and Toreador note that the impassioned speeches 
of one of their own swayed enough reluctant Kindred to make 
the union work. But our own weight, lent quietly behind the 
planners, forged the union. With our gifts we could secure 
meetings from intrusion, track infiltrators and establish the 
certitude of other Kindred. Careful placement of a vote here 
or a favor there enabled us to be certain that other clans 
would move in the directions we proposed. By backing a 
certain Ventrue lord, we could call upon his support later 
against someone he would normally champion; praising a 
Toreador here would mean the Toreador’s eloquence used on 
our behalf. Let the others take credit for the Camarilla — the 
Ventrue would still be trumpeting their responsibility to lead 
Kindred to safety, and the Toreador still making impassioned 
speeches, if we Tremere had not been there to make sure 
that things were done. Many of the elders from other clans 
were unused to rapid change, and could not foresee creating 
a union such as the Camarilla in less than centuries. We, 
on the other hand, knew only too well the need to remain 
constantly vigilant from night to night, adapting to survive 
in the hostile arenas we’d newly joined.
Eventually many elders of the Brujah, Gangrel, Mal-
kavian, Nosferatu, Toreador and Ventrue clans joined us in 
recognizing the need for secrecy. So came about the Camarilla, 
accepted widely among these clans and upholding the Six 
Traditions as a means to hide amongst humans and coexist 
without open warfare.
Those Kindred who felt the Camarilla too restrictive, 
or who had committed crimes too grievous to be allowed 
to survive, found themselves outside the aegis of the orga-
nization. The Founders quickly set justicars and archons to 
the task of rooting out such treacherous influences. These 
rogues formed the anarchs; ostensibly they protested the 
Camarilla’s political structure, but in truth many simply 
fled because as diablerists, kinslayers or wanton menaces 
they threatened the stability of Kindred society by their 
existence and knew that they would be subdued should 
they attempt to join.
The Camarilla ultimately succeeded. As Kindred disap-
peared from common sight, mortals turned their attentions 
from monsters in the dark to the pursuit of reason. Like 
a young adult putting away childish things, humans left 
behind their superstitions and instead took up knowledge. 
We inherited the truth of the occult. As “rational” and 
“scientific” humans trickled into the folds of the other 
clans, those clans accommodated; their own knowledge of 


Clanbook: Tremere
18
the Kindred condition and history becoming mere supersti-
tion. We retained this wisdom, as keyholders to the arcane.
Anarchy and the Sabbat
As the Dark Ages gave way to the Middle Ages and 
then to the Renaissance, Kindred struggled with their 
own transformation from potent lords to hidden predators. 
Stripped of the means to coexist as masters of mortal realms, 
Kindred turned their attention to one another. The Camarilla 
provided a means for Kindred to meet safely and to measure 
their standing against their peers. While solitary feudal lords 
remained in some isolated parts of Europe — largely in the 
ancestral lands of the barbaric Tzimisce — most courts grew 
to accommodate Kindred of varying clans, who had only one 
another’s approval to preen their egos. Camarilla Kindred 
used political influence, blood bonds, mortal intermediaries 
and blackmail to humiliate their enemies and garner prestige. 
Early on we recognized the folly of becoming targets in such 
games, so while other Kindred vied for positions of power 
and influence, we fortified ourselves with the careful broker-
age of our specialized skills. Ventrue princes and Toreador 
harpies fought bitterly over matters of status and prestation, 
Brujah and Gangrel struggled against Camarilla oppression, 
and Malkavians and Nosferatu skulked unaccepted in polite 
society, but we gave them all the tools to fulfill their petty 
ambitions, to ruin their enemies and to defend their domains.
Beyond the domains of the Camarilla, expatriates and 
anarchs established their own social order of sorts. Some 
truly believed that the Camarilla’s structure boded ill, while 
others simply proved incapable of existing in civilized society. 
Regardless, these malcontents provoked the Anarch Revolt, a 
hidden conflict as foolish neonates or diablerist Kindred sought 
to make their fortunes outside the auspices of the Camarilla. 
For the better part of a century these anarchs clashed with 
the Camarilla, while foreign clans — Assamites, Ravnos, 
Setites — plied their trades or even struck at the Camarilla 
before fading back into obscurity.
Naturally, the tenuous security of the new-founded 
Camarilla precipitated danger. The Tzimisce and Lasombra 
clans set themselves in opposition to the Camarilla as anarchs 
claimed credit for the destruction of those clans’ progenitors; 
the unaffiliated clans and anarchs wantonly violated the Ca-
marilla’s Traditions but still claimed protection of Camarilla 
sires. The situation became nigh untenable as the combination 
of anarch sensibilities and Tzimisce sorcery brought forth an 
even greater threat — the Sabbat.
Somehow, using Tzimisce witchery, the anarchs learned 
to break the blood bond and form feral packs of mutual de-
fense. From the Iberian Peninsula to the crags of Romania, 
disenfranchised or hunted Kindred threw in their lot with the 
rebels. Discarding the secrecy of the Camarilla as weak, the 
Sabbat undertook vicious rituals and rites to strengthen their 
own inhuman nature. Even our own clan was not unscathed: 
Goratrix, long the most ambitious supporter of Tremere, openly 
defected. He took to the Sabbat several apprentices as well 
as his own knowledge of Thaumaturgy, casting havoc over 
the entire clan and laying our own best weapons at the feet 
of the enemy, who would have the Inquisition burn us all.
Perhaps sensing the blood already awash, the Assamites 
of the Middle East redoubled their assaults upon Camarilla 
Kindred. Princes fell to the thirsty fangs of the assassins, 
who diablerized any elder they could find. Sabbat packs, too, 
roared into cities and made their own grisly festivals, bringing 
war to the Camarilla with ever-increasing swarms of crazed, 
fanatical neonates. Pressure built for the Camarilla to do 
something, but the justicars were spread thin and unable to 
counter the innumerable sites of battle. The only chance lay 
in a massive turn of events.
Bonds of Thaumaturgy
Once again, our clan rescued the elders of the Cama-
rilla from their inability to react to change. Recognizing the 
dangers of a subtle war on multiple fronts, the Council of 
Seven undertook to develop some of the most potent Thau-
maturgy ever considered. As the Camarilla’s spies infiltrated 
Assamite havens, and the followers of Goratrix ensconced 
themselves in the Sabbat as maniacal mirrors to our own clan, 
the council made its will manifest in ritual. Using principles 
of Contagion and fueling the massive effects with their own 
potent sorceries, the council managed to cast a set of rituals 
that affected entire blood lineages.
Camarilla spies had already penetrated the Assamites’ 
stronghold when the concerted weight of the sect brought the 
assassins to heel. To enforce matters, the council cast a mighty 
curse over the Assamites that attended the signing of the Treaty 
of Tyre. As a result, all Assamites were barred from the ability 
to drink Kindred blood — a safeguard that no other clan could 
have insured, save but in empty politics and fragile promises.
Against the followers of Goratrix, a similar ritual pre-
vailed. The Sabbat’s turgid members shared vitae in a parody 
of ritual designed to prevent the blood bond and thus free 
Advantages…
The formation of the Camarilla not only assisted 
us in hiding among mortals, but also gave us other 
decided advantages. By taking positions as founders in 
the Camarilla, we managed to legitimize our place in 
Kindred society. Those who once called us usurpers and 
diablerists now had to acknowledge our acceptance as 
equals. Furthermore, we improved our own specialized 
position. Kindred with real comprehension of occult-
ism became scarcer in passing years, as the Masquerade 
eroded arcane knowledge in favor of reason. Fledglings 
and neonates had little real information regarding the 
Kindred condition. Our network of learned members 
allowed us to trade vital information and preserve oc-
cult secrets, which we could sparingly use as leverage 
with other Kindred.


Chapter One: The Price of Immortality
19
Unfortunately, the Sabbat seemed to have reached the 
Americas as well; young Kindred looking to evade their elders 
and carve out their own domains found the idea of new lands 
tempting indeed. In usual fashion, we thought it best to en-
trench ourselves so that we could raise appropriate defenses. 
We subtly encouraged the development of fortress-towns, 
the arming of the populace and the continued expansion 
of settled cities.
Naturally, we were not entirely unprepared for the 
eventual secession of the colonies from European rule. 
Opinions differ over whether the Sabbat hoped that colonial 
independence would also mean separation from European 
elders, or whether Camarilla efforts to arm and defend the 
territory encouraged the spread of rebellion. Regardless, 
the colonies revolted; war became the order of the day — 
and night.
Cheap Propaganda
Yes, yes, all well and good to go on about the Ca-
marilla’s invulnerability, the anarchs’ incompetence and 
the like. Despite our best efforts, we could not defeat 
them completely. A ritual did indeed affect all of the 
Tremere antitribu, but could we have caused them to 
explode into flames on the night of Goratrix’s treachery, 
be sure that the council would have done so. A wise 
Tremere recognizes his limits as well as his strengths. 
And, perhaps, keeps his options open.…
them from subservience to their elders, but this same sharing 
of blood made them susceptible to our own blood magic. The 
ritual laid over Goratrix’s line forever marked any Tremere 
who would partake of the Sabbat’s rites, so that all Tremere 
could see the individual as a betrayer. With such success, we 
could easily root out traitors and spot the few Warlocks who 
thought to hide among the Sabbat, thus countering their 
maneuvers and keeping them from spreading.
Perhaps daunted by such effects, the anarch movement 
collapsed; anarchs eventually returned, beaten, to the pro-
tection of the Camarilla, affirming its authority. The Sabbat 
remained defiantly rebellious, but its few Tremere could 
not match our prowess, nor could its numbers approach the 
Camarilla’s. The Camarilla, backed by our skills, prevailed.
The New World
Hand in hand with turmoil in Europe came the discovery 
and exploration of the New World — the Americas. Elder 
Kindred may have derided the colonization of the frontier 
(“Why bother, when all of the conveniences of civilization 
remain here?”), but the council quickly appointed Tremere 
to explore these resources. Not a few decades after the New 
World’s discovery, Tremere had already sent agents into the 
settlements of the Spanish, English, French and Dutch, and 
prepared for travel once populations reached a level capable 
of supporting Kindred.


Clanbook: Tremere
20
Colonial warfare proved beneficent for clan and Ca-
marilla. The various skirmishes provided an excellent cover 
for direct conflict between Camarilla agents and Sabbat 
neonates. Bombed ports and burned cities also destroyed 
enemy havens. In the meantime, we carefully collected 
much of our works in libraries or defensible fortifications; 
armies that would ransack a government building would 
pay little heed to a library, and the defenses of chantries 
both helped to dissuade attackers and aided in guarding the 
cities wherein they resided.
By the time the colonial war died down, we’d managed to 
spread our influence across much of the American continent 
and into Canada as well. Opportunities allowed our clan to 
expand and give positions to young, promising members, 
thus cementing further loyalty and extending the chain 
of the pyramid. The Sabbat was pushed back into Mexico, 
where their chaotic influence helped to steer that country to 
poverty and wreckage, or confined to colder northern climes.
Civil War
The post-revolutionary era allowed the Americas to 
stabilize. Battle lines with the Sabbat changed little in this 
period, while the European Kindred came more and more to 
recognize the value of unopened territory. As settlers headed 
west, Kindred followed, especially in boomtowns like Dodge, 
Tombstone and San Francisco. In some places, Kindred who 
could not even be considered ancillae, such as the fledgling-
prince of Fort Worth, established their own broad domains 
and courts as princes! The new prosperity enriched Kindred 
and kine alike.
For our part, we spread just like the rest of the Camarilla. 
When major cities grew, we placed chantries to lend our 
support to the sect. Experienced political bosses played an 
important role in the development of frontier government. 
As new states came into the union, we managed to open up 
opportunities for education, communication, trade and the 
like. Our careful influence helped to insure that the United 
States supported libraries and universities where we could 
continue to amass specialized knowledge, and we aided other 
Camarilla Kindred in promoting patronage of art, culture 
and politics, further indebting them to us. The pontifices 
recognized the emerging power of the United States and 
made certain that our agents were in place to take advantage 
of the benefits. We encouraged strong trade with Europe and 
even with the East; we pushed for further land development; 
and we extolled the virtues of aggressive military posture so 
that military elements could eventually serve in conflicts 
continentally or even overseas.
The Civil War of the 19th century slowed matters but 
did not halt them. Turned in upon itself, the United States 
couldn’t bring its full economic might to bear yet on the world 
arena. More importantly, though, the Civil War presaged the 


Chapter One: The Price of Immortality
21
new forms of warfare that would come to dominate the globe. 
Massive armies with guns, cannons and sweeping scale showed 
that even brothers could be pitted against one another for a 
bitter cause that would claim millions. Total war practiced in 
Sherman’s March ruined not only military targets, but laid 
waste to every civilian facility in the way (and, incidentally, 
burned not a few havens of the Sabbat who had started to 
creep north from Mexico). To us, the war was also a potent 
reminder — unity must be enforced with strong will and 
action, or it is worthless.
World War
While the United States settled its internal affairs, the 
Industrial Revolution came into full swing. Railroad, telegraph, 
flight, telephone, automobiles, trans-Atlantic shipping — all 
came rapidly on the heels of progress spurred by burgeoning 
humanity and the need for better weapons of war. In the 
States, innovative Kindred latched on to new developments 
and used them to secure their own prominence; in Europe, the 
more conservative Kindred ensured a slower pace of develop-
ment. The Camarilla’s policy of promoting rational thought 
over superstition had come full circle. The world had indeed 
outlived vampires — it no longer needed the night-prowlers 
to keep its labor class in check — and now it steamrollered on 
an ever-increasing, self-feeding path to the future.
As the world’s nations expanded their interests into the 
heretofore-unexploited continents, they increased not only 
their military conquests but also their communications and 
supply lines. A colony in India would need regular garrisons 
Trading in Lies
More political claptrap — someone’s been feeding 
our apprentice well. Of course the Civil War cleansed 
Sabbat and anarchs from the territories. It also offered 
excuses for any Kindred with a grudge to wipe out his 
neighbor. I suspect that more internecine killing hap-
pened under cover of the Civil War than in any prior 
conflict. Slave-holding Tremere estates in the South 
(ah, the plantations provided excellent herds) fell to 
the necessities of fueling the North’s economy. The 
industrializing North, setting a pattern that the States 
would continue to hold, decided to place the South in 
an uncomfortable economic position and then show 
their authority with force. Make no mistake, this war 
wasn’t over policy, it was about money. Almost like the 
Crusades all over again.
I suspect that quite a few regents died at the hands of 
ambitious apprentices while manors and estates burned. 
I know a few, myself.


Clanbook: Tremere
22
to survive, and so too a colony in Africa; only by addressing 
these needs could the industrialized nations keep their interests 
from collapsing to the natives they suppressed. The wave of 
improving transportation proved beneficial, as we could now 
dispatch acolytes and Kindred all about the globe in relative 
safety. Kindred who would never risk sleeping in the holds 
of a creaky wooden ship could survive in relative comfort 
aboard the staterooms of an ironclad steamer. Messages that 
would take months to arrive by horseback now spanned the 
ocean in seconds thanks to telegraph and, later, telephone. 
We’d always excelled in communications and coordination 
more than any other clan; now the technology of the era 
enhanced our natural advantages.
Once the expanding nations of the world ran out of room, 
though, something would have to give. That something gave 
in two World Wars — brutal contests to see who would take 
supremacy over the industrial world. The World Wars spurred 
even further development through warfare, bringing forth 
advancements in flight, strategy and military coordination. 
Factories pumped out material, while nations realized that 
only in granting full and equal rights to all of their citizens 
could they maintain a necessarily strong economy and equally 
strong military. New wars and new times required new ways 
of thinking.
Our part in the World Wars was small — although some 
Kindred lay blame for the Third Reich’s manic occultism at 
our feet, we had no part in such crazed fantasies. Madmen 
and mortal desires drove the wars that inflamed the world, 
not Kindred. That’s not to say that we didn’t take advantage 
of the situation; the World Wars were perfect opportunities 
to test new theories, to pick up recruits from abroad and to 
skim a little graft off the top of the giant military machines 
in order to finance even greater expansion of the clan’s assets.
What surprised Kindred most about the wars was the 
total destructiveness and brutality involved. Gases, artillery, 
bombers and finally the split atom proved once and for all 
that the might of Kindred could not match the sheer de-
structive power available to mortal innovators. Never could 
we risk a new Inquisition; one mortal with a flamethrower 
or machine gun could tear down even a thousand-year-old 
elder. Should the might of humanity ever turn against us, 
we would be annihilated by the sheer magnitude of forces 
harnessed. Thus it became our goal not to become the target, 
but rather the guide. If mortals could level cities with their 
tools, then we would need to advise the mortals with such 
capabilities. The weapons that could destroy us also became 
our provenance. Such was the most recent shift in Tremere 
ideology — in the modern nights, we whisper in the same 
ears as do the Brujah, Ventrue and Toreador. Obviously, we 
are rarely the generals on the field of battle or the officials 
shaking hands with foreign heads of state, but more than 
one bit of espionage has had thaumaturgical assistance in 
its journey to the right hands.


Chapter One: The Price of Immortality
23
And Gehenna?
Hmm. Indeed, we encourage our neonates to delve 
into the benefits of the modern age. What’s the point of 
taking the effort to fuel a ritual designed to contact one’s 
sire, when a simple telephone will do the job? Because of 
our relation to one another — the pyramid — we have 
a singular advantage over other Kindred. We can share 
the ideas that work and discard the ones that don’t in 
a unified fashion.
The question is, what are we becoming? We have 
seen what vampires were in the nights of history. Then 
they were predatory monsters who filled the roles of 
legends. Tonight we are much the same — we still feed 
upon blood, we avoid the sun, and we exist in a perpetual, 
unaging state — but as we absorb this new world, the 
changes that it reflects in the kine come to reflect in 
those who join us. The world no longer needs legends or 
boojums who stalk the shadows between thatched huts. 
Our own call to power, the adaptability that Tremere 
needed in order to make the leap from mortal to Kindred, 
causes us to accept change perhaps more readily than 
many other clans, yet at the same time we cannot tell 
where that change leads.
The old prophecies whisper of Gehenna, of the 
rise of the Antediluvians and the destruction of the 
Kindred race. When vampires themselves are no longer 
creatures from the legends, though, what of the legends? 
Will Gehenna even be what we imagine, if the world is 
so changed? Has Gehenna, perhaps already come, but 
taken a form that we have not recognized? Do we walk 
in its aftermath already? The prophets who wrote the 
legends so long ago would hardly recognize this world. 
Perhaps the Gehenna that they described was only in 
the words that they could understand, not a picture of 
this new millennium.
The Modern Nights
As the wars that gripped the world ended, humanity 
itself recoiled. Here at last they had proven (and realized…) 
their ability to wipe all life from the face of the planet. Ever 
careful with dangerous prey, we protected our own interests 
during the Atomic Age and Cold War. We could not allow 
the mortal world to destroy itself and us in the process; our 
own mystic faculties helped to insure that cooler heads kept 
annihilation constantly at bay. It was a close thing — many 
times, agents went their own way or themselves came under 
the influence of rivals, as made possible by the tremendous 
spread of communications and travel. A general blackmailed in 
one nation could be replaced with a call from another, wiping 
away years of careful work. We watched, we husbanded our 
strength, and we continued to support the Camarilla, hop-
ing that no mortal would ever bring the force of the world 
to bear against Kindred.
As the age has turned, so too has our clan changed. Where 
once we might have been medieval wizards, we’ve evolved 
to fit this modern age. Wizardry is all about inventiveness 
and adaptability: The magician is a seer and one who’s ready 
to grapple with uncommon ideas or unaccepted theories. 
We’ve transformed into the modern magicians. While our 
elders may remain ensconced in stone walls with Gargoyles 
and bloody “spells,” we’ve got virtual chantries and Internet 
incantations fueled by JavaScript and immortality. The 
world’s advances become our playthings, because we’re the 
ones who understand most the value of interconnectedness, 
the chains and hierarchies that even mortals are only just 
beginning to spread across the world in a web of silicon. We 
know the secrets that numbers can’t tell, and we know how 
to make the numbers dance in intricate shapes. While other 
Kindred scrabble to claim their own pieces of the emerging 
globe, we’ve already plotted our pieces, divided up the ter-
ritory and invested in the future. When others rely on their 
age-old Disciplines, we forge a new path with the flexibility 
of Thaumaturgy and the foresight of ambition. We made 
ourselves Kindred, and we’re a newer, better breed — the old 
ones will go the way of the Long Night that spawned them, 
but we Tremere will adapt, acclimate and absorb the greatest 
new achievements into ourselves.


Clanbook: Tremere
24


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
25
Chapter Two:  
Inside the  
Pyramid
Regimentation and hierarchy go hand in hand with 
the Tremere clan — or so outsiders believe. Other vampires 
suspiciously paint the Tremere as a unified lockstep chain of 
command with harsh rules, punishments and authoritarian 
dogma. Given their apparent unity, the Tremere certainly 
seem like just such a monolithic pyramid.
The Tremere are organized, and they do have a hier-
archy, but it is neither so rigid nor so dictatorial as many 
would believe. Formed originally from the social impetus 
of numerous cults of Hermes, in which like-minded wizards 
gathered to share and protect their respective talents, the 
Tremere “pyramid” is a social construct — and perhaps a 
little more. The ancient tradition of master-to-apprentice 
still holds much weight, and elders cement loyalty through 
the psychological power of communal rituals and the blood 
bond, especially just after the Embrace when an inductee 
latches on to any structure to grapple with his new condi-
tion. However, despite the paranoia of other clans and the 
self-serving claims of insecure elders, the Tremere have no 
great and terrible rituals to enforce unending subservience. 
The Warlocks maintain no secret squads of assassins whose 
sole purpose is to hunt down rogue Tremere. None but the 
most neurotic patrons have established dictums and pledges of 
allegiance binding their entire broods into lockstep behavior 
over “Tremere issues.” Mostly.…
In short, the pyramid is a tool for survival. Young 
neonates gain a sense of organization so that they know 
who’s successful, what’s expected and how to survive. Elders 
tantalize subordinates with the promise of rewards — extra 
authority, esoteric training, political support — in return for 
faithful service, and punish the neonates who do not meet 
their expectations. Similar stick-and-carrot schemes drive 
ambitious Kindred of other clans, but in the Tremere, the 
elders hold a monopoly on their secrets, and they present 
at least the appearance of cooperation. A neonate Brujah 
could learn the mysteries of Disciplines or Noddist heresies 
from anyone. A neonate Tremere can’t very well turn to 
those outside his clan to improve his Thaumaturgical prow-
ess. The pyramid thus promotes collaboration, subtly culls 
those who refuse to work within the strictures of the clan and 
provides clear lines of authority for those who latch onto it 
fanatically. At the same time, it’s a backstabbing morass of 
treacherous, power-hungry individuals who’ll break any of 
the rules or betray any colleague for a chance at promotion 
in the inflexible, ages-old structure.
The Pyramid’s 
Pieces
Appreciation for mysticism and numerology led the early 
Tremere to build their pyramid based on magical as well as 
practical principles. The mythical Tremere himself looms at 
the top of the pyramid, a figure unseen and unheard of by 
most of the clan. In theory, Tremere directs the clan from 
this position of leadership. In practice, sweeping decisions 
come from the councilors, seven elders who each oversee a 
given part of the world. Councilors appoint seven pontifices 
to arrange matters within their continents. The pontifices 
pass their orders on to seven lords each, who in turn oversee 
regents, who oversee apprentices.
Of course, simple mathematics suggest that the clan 
hardly claims enough members to fill each position with 
seven officers. Often, positions remain vacant, their du-


Clanbook: Tremere
26
ties fulfilled by careful collaboration — or one-upmanship 
— among lesser parties; a pair of regents might divide the 
monitoring of a realm that would normally be adjudicated to 
a lord, while still performing their usual duties. Indeed, few 
cities can host so many vampires as to have a regent with 
seven apprentices. The pyramid always has a vacancy, and 
this tidbit is just one of the rewards for which competent 
members of the clan might vie.
Ranks
Loyal Tremere recognize positions of rank within the 
pyramid, both as a convenience of authority and as a tantaliz-
ing promise of power. This isn’t so much a direct influence 
over other Tremere as it is recognition of service, capability 
and political savvy. Tremere in positions of rank often use 
their influence on their peers’ behalf with the expectation of 
reciprocation. They learn the hidden secrets of the clan, then 
dole out such tidbits as might encourage their subordinates 
to remain loyal and productive. Rank isn’t everything to a 
Tremere; indeed, some low-ranking Tremere don’t even bother 
with the clan’s structure, instead taking personal interests in 
other aspects of Kindred or mortal society. However, rank is 
the best way to advance in the clan’s special knowledge, to 
gain the assistance of powerful Tremere Kindred, and to gain 
sway over Tremere clan resources.
While political positions like princes or scourges vary from 
city to city, the Tremere pyramid remains relatively consistent 
across the globe. An apprentice in one city immediately knows 
his position with respect to a regent in another. Each rank 
— apprentice, regent, lord, pontifex — has seven circles of 
mystery; a postulant starts at the first circle and (hopefully) 
progresses through the seventh. Each circle denotes a degree 
of mystic understanding and personal responsibility. Thus, an 
apprentice of the fifth circle presumably knows more occult 
secrets and wields greater authority than an apprentice of the 
third circle. In practice, of course, favoritism and prestation 
come into play: The same apprentice of the fifth circle may 
hold his position simply by virtue of descent from the lin-
eage of an important lord, while the apprentice of the third 
circle could be a frighteningly talented thaumaturge with few 
political ambitions. Nevertheless, the higher-circle Tremere 
outranks the lower-circle ones as far as the clan is concerned, 
and a higher station such as a regent would naturally far 
outstrip a simple apprentice. Those who achieve the higher 
ranks of a given title’s circles of mystery (that is, circles five 
and above) are sometimes known as “high” members of their 
rank. Although usage varies — few bother with such awkward 
parlance as “high apprentice” — such distinctions often serve 
the pride (and vanity) that so often goes hand in hand with 
Tremere accomplishment.
Generally, a new Embrace receives the rank of apprentice 
of the first circle. Exceptions have happened — long-term 
ghouls, especially competent mortal magicians and favorite 
childer of high-ranking Tremere have all claimed positions of 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
27
authority early in their “careers” — but for most, the journey 
starts at the bottom. It’s a long, slow road up. Most Tremere 
don’t pass the junior rank of apprentice; fierce infighting 
blocks advancement, and some Warlocks simply give in to 
frustration or ennui without ever rising through the ranks. 
A few eschew the hierarchy altogether to exist as anarchs, 
autarkis or rogues.
Kindred outside the Tremere clan rarely have any famil-
iarity with the rank structure. The average person doesn’t 
know the hierarchy of the Rosicrucians from the 1500s; 
neither do non-Tremere Kindred study the internal policies 
of the clan. Occasionally a nosy Kindred tries to figure out 
the rank structure, but the fact that ranks have more to do 
with political jockeying and knowledge than with actual com-
mand sometimes makes it difficult to discern the underlying 
pattern — a skilled apprentice may wield far more influence 
than a figurehead regent. For their part, Tremere are exhorted 
to keep the ranking structure private; only the most rebel-
lious or absent-minded Tremere discusses apprentices and 
regents in Elysium.
Fledglings
A just-Embraced Tremere finds herself in a tenuous posi-
tion. Not only must she balance the demands of the Beast 
and the sudden transformation from human to monster, but 
she’s inundated with her sire or regent’s admonitions. Like 
other Kindred, she must learn the Traditions (particularly the 
Masquerade), discover means to feed, hone her new Disciplines 
and grapple with the morality of her new existence. Thus, 
Clan Tremere has one of the highest failure rates of all the 
Kindred families — coming to grips with their hellish new 
existence proves too much for most new Embraces, and they 
either go mad or end their unlives by greeting the next sunset.
A Tremere’s sire may play a part in her acceptance of 
her state, but the clan’s hierarchy may do so as well — often, 
a high-ranking apprentice or regent also acts as mentor to 
the fledgling Kindred, if only for a short time. This isn’t so 
much a brainwashing as it is a “welcome to the conspiracy.” 
The regent or sire gives the Tremere Oath as a skilled 
thaumaturge uses the Transubstantiation of Seven ritual. 
Aside from that, it’s unlife as usual; the sire or assigned 
mentor makes introductions into Kindred society, watches 
out for problems and helps the new recruit to adjust. The 
momentous weight of the change from life to undeath en-
tices many young Kindred to grasp for whatever authority 
they can, simply to give their unlives some sort of structure. 
The pyramid fulfills that need. When desperate neonates 
look for explanations of their condition or help in coping 
with their new vampirism, the sire often fills in the role of 
mentor. With the Tremere, though, the pyramid is part and 
parcel to the package. Along with the Traditions and the 
duties of childe to sire come admonitions to pay heed to 
the pyramid and lessons in its structure.
Of course, the above assumes that one’s sire is a dutiful 
Tremere — that is, one who’s not above using the pyramid 
as another tool to influence her childe’s loyalties. The clan’s 
insular structure makes “rogue” Embraces less common than 
among other Kindred, but not totally unknown. Sometimes an 
ignorant neonate Embraces an old love, or a regent Embraces 
a family member, or an impassioned Tremere Embraces a lover 
or infatuated paramour. Officially, ranking Tremere frown upon 
this practice. It wouldn’t do to have too many “accidental” 
Tremere running loose with a few clan secrets, a handful of 
misinformed opinions and no safeguards in place, after all. In 
practice, such fledglings tend to be assimilated once they’re 
discovered; better to use a resource than to waste it. Naturally, 
they must undergo the oath and the Transubstantiation, and 
many suffer from a social stigma among more conservative 
Tremere. Among liberal regents and apprentices, though, 
such fledglings can interact without much prejudice — so 
long as the “real” Tremere don’t care about the supposed 
pedigree of the fledgling, she’s just another unfortunate (and 
potential servant) in need of instruction. Indeed, a Tremere 
Embraced without the usual ritual can be quite ignorant of 
usual clan policies or even Kindred society, and thus makes 
a perfect “protégé.”
As with any Kindred, the level of freedom afforded a 
fledgling varies from sire to sire. Some sires require their 
childer to attend them at all times until released, the assump-
tion being that the sire will properly educate the childe in 
the mystic arts and prevent her from making any egregious 
mistakes. Other sires give their childer wider berth to learn 
on their own and learn through experience, reasoning that 
the childe must acclimate to the Embrace according to her 
own predilections. Still, very few regents would accept a 
Caitiff or a childe who hasn’t gone through the oath and 
the Transubstantiation; clan secrets remain secret, after all. 
A Tremere would no more trust an undereducated fledgling 
with Thaumaturgy than a Mason would tell his society’s secret 
history to someone who’d never been initiated or learned the 
special offices, keywords and philosophies.
Apprentices
The bulk of neonates rank as apprentices. The apprentice 
serves several duties to the clan. Presumably, the apprentice 
brings specific abilities to the table. Most apprentices work 
to hone their specialty. By working with the skills they know 
best, they stand the greatest chance of promotion through 
success. Young apprentices study the basics of Thaumaturgy 
and the Kindred condition with their sires and superiors; older 
ones most often work according to their tastes and talents. 
A diplomatic apprentice, for instance, may be tasked with 
maintenance of good relations with local Kindred of impor-
tance — it would be foolish to rely on him as a geologist or 
Kabbalistic scholar when his talents make him more valuable 
in other directions, and the clan can simply go to a different 
specialist for such skills.
Foremost among an apprentice’s characteristics is duty. 
No vampire would care to spend unlife as a servant to an-
other’s whims, but an apprentice who bothers to pay respect 


Clanbook: Tremere
28
to clan ideals ultimately hopes to improve in the ranks. That 
means that the apprentice needs to at least appear to have his 
master’s goals in mind. Degrees of duty vary, of course. Some 
Tremere hope to advance through the ranks by mastering 
Thaumaturgy, by making unprecedented new breakthroughs 
or by sycophantically supporting a higher-ranking Tremere. 
Others treacherously seek opportunities to discredit or depose 
their peers and seniors. Still others serve the clan in other 
capacities — more than one Tremere funds his colleagues’ 
experiments with money drawn from venture-capital returns, 
and the Tremere who maintains an A-list nighlife spot likely 
wields a frightening array of Kindred gossip. Because the 
apprentice improves in rank only at the whim of his regent 
(or higher authority), he must serve that luminary’s cause if 
he’s to rise in circle.
Typical duties for an apprentice vary widely with the 
individual and location. An apprentice who works directly 
with a regent in a strongly Camarilla city will find himself 
encouraged to assist in research, aid in clan-specific goals, work 
with other Kindred (if he’s sociable enough) and to complete 
regular progress reports. Cities with a more chaotic tem-
perament, or fewer Tremere, give apprentices more latitude: 
Obviously apprentices continue to indulge in their personal 
predilections, but the less Tremere influence in a city, the less 
that an apprentice is expected to do. If there’s no regent to 
give orders and no chantry to collect reports, after all, then 
the apprentice works on his own cognizance. Occasionally 
apprentices do wind up in areas where their superiors might 
have interests — say, a politico moved to a state capital to 
observe the legislature,  while his regent remains in another 
city and reaps the benefits. In such cases the interested parties 
often request regular correspondence so that they can sift out 
choice bits of information. The apprentice’s overall workload 
really depends upon how much value he places on his func-
tions and upon his regent’s strictness. An apprentice with a 
conservative, draconian regent may find himself required to 
toe the line of the Tremere Oath, to submit weekly progress 
reports and to account for his time away from the chantry. 
More moderate regents recognize that this level of oversight 
stifles creativity and incites rebellion, so most apprentices find 
their duties fairly light. Naturally, if the apprentice fulfills 
his role admirably, he’s tantalized with the rewards of secrets 
and promotions. If he slackens, he simply doesn’t advance in 
the hierarchy, and he may acquire a poor reputation among 
other Tremere. It’s only if an apprentice horribly botches a 
project, deliberately ruins a Tremere undertaking, proves 
intractable or serves as a scapegoat for someone else that 
he’ll find himself taken to task.
Probably the most important distinction, though, is that 
an apprentice accepts such treatment. Those who decide 
not to work within the clan’s strictures, or who reject the 
authority of higher-ranking members, often find themselves 
stripped of rank. It’s possible to be an anarch apprentice, but 
it’s rare; such loose cannons are often seen as threats to the 
clan’s legacy, and the elders have little love for unpredict-
able or fractious subordinates. Ranked apprentices generally 
include a spectrum, from nominally loyal neonates who see 
their duties as an acceptable chore to enthusiastic follow-
ers who look to the clan’s agenda as much as their own. A 
consistently difficult apprentice probably won’t make it past 
the early circles, risks a blood bond to the council if he has 
a strict regent and may well break with the clan’s politics 
entirely. Unlife is usually short for such mavericks.
The rewards of apprenticeship are often commensurate 
with the duties, of course. An apprentice can accomplish 
more and better tasks with expanded knowledge and skill, 
so it’s in the best interests of his superiors to make sure 
that he’s well-trained once he’s proven his value. Repeated 
advancement of clan interests can concomitantly lead to 
advancement through circles of mystery (assuming that the 
apprentice doesn’t alienate his superiors socially — more than 
one promising apprentice has been held to low rank simply 
due to a conflict of personality). An apprentice who loyally 
obliges “requests,” reports dutifully on progress and passes on 
useful information may slowly rise to become an attaché or 
aide to an important regent or lord, and thus be able to carry 
the weight of that patron’s standing.
An apprentice’s freedom of movement varies with 
age, personal experience and circle. At the first circle of 
mystery, apprentices remain under close scrutiny. Naturally, 
the regulations vary from regent to regent, but most new 
apprentices must remain in regular contact with their supe-
riors (once per week is common), refrain from voicing any 
opinion on Tremere clan policies without the approval of 
a superior, and visit the chantry regularly (again, once per 
week is common). Domineering regents sometimes even 
require such neonates to use the chantry as their haven, 
and exercise even more direct influence over the low ap-
prentice’s night-to-night existence. Because a revolt is so 
unlikely to succeed (or, at least, that appearance is fostered 
for the hapless apprentice), the only way out is to follow 
the rules and gain rank — a cycle that perpetuates itself as 
the rising Tremere in turn entertains similar expectations 
from new recruits. As the apprentice rises in circle, he’s 
given more leeway for his personal projects. Improvement 
to the second or third circle comes as the apprentice works 
out his place with his peers. Once the apprentice fulfills his 
regent’s expectations for basic competence, usually including 
knowledge of the Traditions, a good grasp of the Tremere 
Oath and some rudimentary understanding of occult prin-
ciples, he no longer requires such direct supervision, which 
his superiors recognize with promotion. The fourth and fifth 
circles represent competent apprentices who work as aides 
to higher apprentices or regents, who take direction well but 
have also learned to work independently within the rules. 
These mid-level apprentices have consistent records for 
discipline, skill and initiative. Most mid-ranking apprentices 
make only monthly or annual reports to their regents, to 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
29
detail the highlights of their projects. Apprentices of the 
sixth and seventh circles may move far afield, indeed; they 
are sometimes seen like master sergeants — carrying great 
weight of experience and personal skill, capable of extended 
tasks and problem-resolution, but also loyal to the higher 
ranks. These sorts of apprentices can be tapped for promo-
tion to regent positions when a new chantry forms, or can 
be sent into difficult extended service; their proven loyalty 
and competence make them valued assets to their masters. 
It’s only at such ranks that most apprentices ever meet any 
Tremere other than their regent and peers: Apprentices 
who desire inter-clan communications (to compare notes 
on study or to garner news from a distant city, perhaps) 
typically send such missives through regents, in the fashion 
of a conspiratorial cell.
Regents
Proven loyalty to the clan leads to positions of some 
authority. Regency involves sway over an entire chantry, 
typically with several apprentices. Most neonate Tremere can 
aspire at best to this rank — their relative inexperience and 
weakness of blood mean that they will not replace the staid 
elders in higher positions except in unusual circumstances. 
Indeed, many Tremere never attain this threshold, instead 
keeping the position of apprentice at a high circle of mystery.
The regents combine familiarity with Tremere occultism 
with substantial temporal duties. Most often, regents over-
see new Embraces, perform important rituals such as wards 
and the Transubstantiation (see below), set local Tremere 
standards, develop long-range goals for their chantries, 
and arrange financial clout. The regent coordinates the 
necessary materials for maintenance of a chantry, handles 
communication with other cities, disseminates occult lore, 
and sets policy for dealings with other Kindred. (How much 
an apprentice actually follows these dictates depends upon 
the regent’s enforcement techniques and the apprentice’s 
interest, of course.…) In short, the regent manages the 
details required by the presence of a chantry, in addition 
to his normal nightly routine.
Although regents deal with Tremere business, that’s 
hardly the sum of their existence. A regent still has a person-
ality; he can still take in a ballet, dabble in the stock market, 
seduce hapless mortal paramours — whatever his fancy. His 
responsibility to the Tremere clan is administrative. After all, 
someone has to keep records of chantry finances, blackmail 
materials, occult library contents and databases of important 
connections. The regent makes sure that such information 
stays in order, and consequently he also has access to nearly 
all local Tremere resources. How a regent manages these re-
sources is up to him — he can delegate them to apprentices, 
oversee them personally, convince a mortal to take care of the 
taxes or whatever, just so long as the chantry runs smoothly 
and visiting Tremere don’t find any egregious holes in the 
records. In fact, many regents do delegate such matters, and 
many chantries have apprentices (or lesser regents) appointed 
as librarians, accountants, majordomos and even network 
administrators.
Because regents deal with communications, they handle 
ties between varied cities. Often, regents rely on the contacts 
of their ranking lords. If a regent in Philadelphia doesn’t know 
who’s doing business in Milwaukee, he’ll just have to send a 
missive to his lord and wait for it to cross channels if he thinks 
that a change in paper prices is about to drive Wisconsin’s 
printing economy over a cliff. Some regents have an advantage 
if they attain their position at the same time as some of their 
contemporaries — if several apprentices become regents of 
varied cities at the same time, ties to such acquantances can 
prove useful, much as a military commander might call up a 
friend with whom he studied in the academy.
What Exactly is a Loyal Tremere?
A “loyal Tremere” is any Tremere who has something 
to gain from the clan by screwing you over.
— Everett Thig, Tremere apprentice
Kindred are petty, snide, vain, backstabbing creatures 
by nature. Tremere exacerbate this with a pyramid that 
encourages advancement by stepping on others. The idea 
of a “loyal Tremere” seems, after some consideration, a 
contradiction in terms.
Loyal Tremere include those who manage to check 
their ambition enough to avoid overreaching themselves. 
That is, a loyal Tremere is one who hasn’t been caught 
breaking the rules, who gives his superiors consideration 
and who pays the obligatory visible service to the clan’s 
oath. None of this is exclusive of personal goals, of 
course. Instead, the loyal Tremere makes sure that his 
goals coincide with the clan’s interests; a Tremere skilled 
in finance, for instance, may use his talents to increase 
available holdings for a local regent or lord and thereby 
remain loyal.
Similarly, the loyal Tremere keeps an eye out for 
other Tremere who don’t exercise as much discretion, and 
quickly makes use of such troublemakers. The Kindred 
toes the line of acceptable behavior (as defined by local 
custom and individual superiors) while keeping an eye 
out for any Tremere who makes the mistake of flying in 
the face of authority. If a Tremere finds himself declared 
a rogue, it’s his “clan-loyal” brethren who see to his 
capture or destruction. When the regent needs someone 
to do dirty work, it’s the loyal Tremere who volunteers, 
while others remain ambivalent. Naturally, the pyramid 
rewards loyalty. The question is, do the rewards match 
what the individual Tremere wants?
In the end, the Tremere pyramid is not a body of law. 
It is a social system by which like-minded Kindred reward 
the merits of those who meet their superiors’ approval.


Clanbook: Tremere
30
Upon his increase in rank, a regent of the first circle 
has just been charged with foundation of a chantry, or with 
oversight of a small chantry or project. Concomitantly higher 
circles denote authority over greater chantries or projects. A 
first-circle regent completes reports (by paper, phone, per-
sonal visit or whatever’s convenient) to a lord regarding clan 
projects, generally once per month with a personal visit at 
least once per year. Higher-ranking regents gain more leeway 
to manage according to personal discretion and taste. By the 
seventh circle, a regent may not only maintain a chantry in 
a large city, but in associated projects and several satellite 
chantries as well, overseeing the duties of multiple appren-
tices or working directly for a high-ranking lord or pontifex.
Once a Tremere becomes a regent — and many never do 
— he’s heavily ensconced in the clan structure. His important 
responsibilities and his access to sensitive material mean that the 
lords can’t permit him to be lax or chaotic. While apprentices 
have some latitude in their loyalties, the lords pay attention to 
regents’ behavior — and ambitious apprentices or competing 
regents are quick to take advantage of any “treason.” Not that 
some distant lord directs a regent’s every move; rather, a regent 
simply needs to remember where his loyalties lie. A lord might 
remind an errant regent in any number of subtle fashions: with-
holding useful information, denying promotion or approval 
for new apprentices, sending letters of chastisement to other 
regents and lords, or just turning a deaf ear to the requests of 
a regent who decides to let his personal ambitions exceed his 
contributions to the clan. A regent‘s personal interests are 
intimately tied to the clan’s. For this reason, a regent must be 
expert at finding ways to combine his agenda with the clan’s, 
or at least to convince other Tremere that his actions serve a 
boon cause to the clan as a whole. Regents have managed to 
convince other Tremere to support their personal influence 
schemes or bids for power on the pretext that what’s good for 
them also benefits the clan. Such tactics can also easily descend 
into the realm of “us versus them,” in which cases Tremere 
broaden their own contacts or powers “just to keep them out 
of the hands of others.”
Lords
Most Tremere will never meet anyone above the rank of 
lord. Indeed, the lords communicate most of their missives 
through intermediaries, mystical means or written direction, 
and the regents under their command must interpret their 
requests. A lord oversees an entire geographic region, such as 
a small group of states in the US or a small country in Europe.
A neonate might expect a lord to wield considerable influ-
ence, but this isn’t necessarily the case. Instead of directly pulling 
the strings in mortal government or Kindred society, a lord uses 
ties within the Tremere clan to get business done. Certainly, a 
lord will oversee areas of personal interest — one lord known for 
an interest in metallurgy and geology has funded several material 
science projects personally — but most often the lord keeps a 
general outline of the region and lets local Tremere handle “clan 
business.” A lord cannot be everywhere, and many lords reward 
those who aid them in their own capacities. For example, a lord 
who wishes to line his region’s coffers with gambling proceeds 
will probably not talk to members of state gaming boards himself, 
but will call upon those Tremere (or even outsiders) within his 
region who have contacts with such governmental agencies.
Of course, regents and lower-ranking Tremere don’t 
have to step and fetch at a lord’s every whim. Instead, the 
lord brokers deals through his substantial influence. Just like 
a doctor in the Masons might cut a deal with his friend the 
judge, the lord arranges the trade of useful talent between 
various parties, and claims his own due off the top. For making 
arrangements between two Kindred in need of a meeting, the 
lord might garner a small boon. For teaching a little-known 
Thaumaturgy ritual, the lord may name a price in duties. 
For silence in the matter of a regent’s ill-advised activities 
in violation of the Code of the Tremere, the lord secures a 
behind-the-scenes favor involving some things better left 
unsaid. Due to extensive contacts and assumed authority, 
the lord has substantial knowledge or resources to trade. In 
turn, the lord makes sure that Tremere business runs smoothly 
in his area — if a prince gets too uppity in demands of the 
clan, the lord could arrange for several visitors to make a 
“demonstration”; if a dangerous rogue explains the internal 
hierarchy to outsiders, the lord might encourage regional 
Tremere to deal with the renegade, with promises of rewards.
Each lord answers to an appropriate pontifex, and usually 
oversees several regents directly. A lord can surpass the usual 
chain of communication to speak directly to apprentices within 
his region, and has the authority to discipline clan members 
who forget their place. Many lords also take on a promising 
apprentice or regent as an attaché to oversee their personal, 
night-to-night business and take care of mundane paperwork 
or administrative matters. At the low ranks, a lord still wields 
substantial authority, but must rely upon his own contacts within 
his region. As the lord increases in rank, contacts with other 
lords and hopeful regents become more frequent; the lord’s 
successes encourage others to tie their fortunes to his, and the 
lord can use his rank alone to request minor favors. Contacts 
with other lords result in an overlapping web of influence, as 
the lord can claim “considerations” from neighboring lords in 
order to pursue his projects, have useful Tremere transferred 
into his area or overlook minor indiscretions. To facilitate 
communication, most lords meet with their pontifex at least 
once every three years; the lord is expected to make travel 
accommodations, and to plan for a stay of several nights or 
even weeks. During such times the lord has the opportunity 
to present matters to the pontifex personally, or to become 
involved in wide-ranging plots and tribunals.
Pontifices
Just beneath the Council of Seven, the secretive ponti-
fices are the eyes of the Tremere across the world. A pontifex 
oversees operations in a large geographical area — a portion of 
a large nation, perhaps, or an agglomeration of small countries 
or islands — or handles matters directly relating to temporal 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
31
influence, such as finance and industry or politics and religion. 
Each pontifex carries the experience of centuries, the skill of 
planning long-range designs and the power to sway the ranks 
of lesser Tremere with the utterance of their names alone.
A pontifex acts much like a lord, only with a broader 
realm of responsibility — she correlates information, handles 
the transfer of useful resources from area to area, keeps the 
lords in line and plays out the clan’s territorial ambitions. 
Because the pontifex oversees such a great domain, she can 
initiate operations that affect whole cities. A pontifex might 
instruct all Tremere apprentices and regents in a given city 
to cease operations and move if a local luminary decides to 
take advantage of the Tremere; because the pontifex can 
make her displeasure keenly known, such suggestions come 
closer to true orders than the more open policies of lower-
ranking clanmates.
Rarely does a pontifex involve herself in simple nightly 
problems or personal disputes. With a baleful gaze cast across 
miles, the pontifex must balance the long-term repercus-
sions of various actions upon both private interests and 
clan matters. Every pontifex wields surpassing skill in both 
Thaumaturgy and in more mundane specialties. Internally, 
a pontifex could easily expect apprentices and even regents 
to bow to her whims; externally, a pontifex seems a shadowy 
nightmare to non-Tremere, one of the rumored elders who 
never comes to the fore but rather wages Jyhad from behind 
a veil of lessers. A pontifex does not stoop to mere brawling. 
Rather, the pontifex knows the value of time and planning. 
Where a lord might divert some resources from one city to 
another in order to help the clan’s influence grow, a pontifex 
looks to the ultimate value of such influence — why bother 
sending steel to Detroit if the auto industry is all moving 
overseas or south in the next 50 years? A pontifex is not a 
corporate manager — she doesn’t draft memos. Rather, she 
lets various lords know her general expectations: “I want to see 
the chantries on the East Coast reinforced; too much Sabbat 
activity. Collect prestation debts to challenge the might of 
that bishop in Raleigh-Durham. And keep an eye on heavy-
metal mining operations; the proliferation of nuclear powers 
means a gradual increase in demand there.” As usual, a lord’s 
reactions generally relate to what the lord thinks will succeed 
and advance her personal ambitions, but a displeased pontifex 
can easily call on many, many lesser ranks of Tremere who’d 
be more than happy to gain a promotion at the expense of 
one rebellious clanmate.
The pontifices must have a broad view of clan history 
and direction. While a regent may cover operations in a 
local chantry, the pontifex understands how the clan started, 
how it holds power in the Camarilla and what it must do 
to continue in a place of prominence. Rare is the pontifex 
without a firm grasp of Tremere legacy, Tremere secrets and 
extensive thaumaturgical knowledge. Indeed, most also have 
an exceeding command of Camarilla history, the develop-
ment of customs like Elysium and prestation, and even the 
general histories of other clans — all the better to advance 
Tremere standing in Kindred society.
Circles of mystery mean little to pontifices. In theory, a 
higher-ranking circle denotes a pontifex of superior author-
ity, but in practice, the circles of pontifices have more to do 
with favor of the Council, prosperity of controlled areas and 
specialized occult knowledge.
Adjustments, Promotions 
and Demotions
Fledgling Tremere look upon rank advancement as a re-
ward system. To some degree, this is true; if an apprentice can 
be exhorted to greater effort simply for the intangible reward 
of a circle of mystery, then his regent will happily motivate 
him thus. Once a Tremere becomes more experienced with 
the system, though, he realizes that rank is more complex 
than just rewards and punishments.
As a reward or punishment, a Tremere can be advanced 
in or stripped of rank; any Tremere of higher rank may do so, 
though this may require a tribunal. In such a fashion an indi-
vidual Tremere’s accomplishments or failings are recognized.
However, long-ranging plans of lords and pontifices call 
for a network of Tremere ranks that reflect political expedi-
ence over their dominion. For this reason, a Tremere’s rank 
doesn’t always correspond directly to his accomplishments. 
In a small or underpopulated town, it may be impossible for 
a Tremere to reach the rank of regent, simply because the 
area’s lord feels that no regent is necessary and no chantry 
should be supported in the locale — one Tremere may be 
plenty. Similarly, if a pontifex needs to strengthen an area 
against the Sabbat or the movements of a rival elder, she may 
promote several promising apprentices to regent status and 
charge all of them with the expansion of Tremere territory 
and the construction of new chantries. An apprentice may 
receive an attaché position in lieu of promotion, showing 
that responsibilities remain the same but in a different 
emphasis. Kindred may even receive promotions simply to 
further some greater scheme of the lords and pontifices. A 
jealous rival may be prompted to rash action if his adver-
sary is promoted to regency before him, or an apprentice 
adjusted down in rank may make a perfect plant in a difficult 
location as someone who appears to be a neophyte but is 
actually far more experienced. Ranks facilitate the system; 
they do not bow to it.
Secret Societies
The Tremere pyramid holds layers upon layers of con-
spiracy. The Masquerade hides Kindred, the Tremere conceal 
their clan secrets within the Camarilla, and each rank in 
the pyramid successively holds deeper insight into the clan’s 
overall goals. No wonder, then, that some Kindred in the clan 
also form additional secret groups to advance their specific 
agendas. A circle of regents and apprentices might meet to 
discuss their mutual interests in accumulating the accolades 


Clanbook: Tremere
32
of their colleagues in their city or to take care of problems 
threatening the chantry or resource base, but those who seek 
hidden knowledge or “extracurricular” goals gather with other 
like-minded Tremere in surreptitious communion.
While apprentices and regents meet in the chantries to 
discuss mutually beneficial goals, secret societies usually gather 
in back rooms or private havens. Few such societies have any 
sort of official recognition within the clan, and indeed, member-
ship in some can be considered a serious offense. Tremere enter 
secret societies for the same reasons that anyone else might: to 
obtain their personal desires, to share information with others 
of similar mind and to garner useful contacts.
Houses
The houses of Clan Tremere are little more than cults of 
personality at their worst, but are distinct colleges of magic 
or philosophy at their most valid. The clan consists of an 
unknown number of houses, some claiming only a handful 
of members, while others — the House of Tremere — claim 
every childe of the clan.
Houses theoretically grow around one central magi-
cal principle or collection of theories. House Tremere, for 
example, upholds Hermetic blood magic as its fundamental 
doctrine. Other houses, such as the supposedly defunct House 
Quaesitor, upheld a code above that of the Tremere Code, 
which was the Code of Hermes in this case. Still others, such 
as House Goratrix, espouse similar thaumaturgical ideals 
but differ wholly on the practice and ethics of blood magic.
By and large, houses are informal congregations, peopled 
by elective memberships and upheld as long as they fulfill 
some purpose. Even these purposes may vary — House Mas-
simo is a social league of Italian Tremere that convenes for 
the purpose of trading rituals; House ab Flaidd advocates 
the study of Wicca as an adjunct to Hermetic Thaumaturgy.
Storytellers and players should feel free to create their 
own houses. They are an excellent opportunity for characters 
to meet other Tremere (and even other thaumaturges, in the 
case of some liberal houses…), and a fun vehicle by which 
to spawn small new societies of the undead.
Houses of the Tremere
Listed below are a few of the more prominent — or notorious — houses of Clan Tremere. Not all of these are com-
mon knowledge; some exist only as rumors and may well be fictional, while others are august and prestigious.
House	
	
	
Practice		
	
	
Notes
Trismegistus	 	
	
symbology and numerology
Hashem	
	
	
Kabbalah
Rodolfo	
	
	
divination
Daughters of the Crone	
birth and death magic
Horned Society	
	
infernalism	
	
	
allows non-Kindred members
High Saturday	
	
voudoun and necromancy	 	
allows non-Tremere members
Auram Guild	
	
alchemy
Goratrix	
	
	
Thaumaturgy	
	
	
Tremere antitribu of the Sabbat
Astors
Dating to the mortal days of the Tremere clan, astors 
function as secret police. An astor theoretically wields the 
authority of the pontifices themselves; indeed, rumor has it 
that one pontifex is counted as an astor and guides the astors 
in maintaining internal order. Naturally, few Tremere would 
draw enough concern to require direct intervention from 
their clanmates, but in the rare cases where an individual 
Tremere becomes a problem for the clan as a whole, the 
astors intervene.
Astors train in Thaumaturgy, investigative and inter-
rogation techniques, and some combat skills; an astor must 
be capable of hunting down any and all treachery, stopping 
leaks of Tremere secrets and even destroying Tremere Kindred 
who let their personal wants lead them down the road of 
folly. An astor’s internal authority in judgments is absolute: 
If a tribunal declares a Tremere as rogue or threat, the as-
tors hunt him; if a Tremere seems to be erring on the side of 
dangerous behavior, an astor may investigate under the guise 
of “transferring” to the region.
Most Tremere who’ve survived more than a year have 
at least heard of the astors, but the individual identities of 
these dozen or so Tremere remain very secret. Because an 
astor must juggle responsibility to the clan against local 
Kindred politics, this position results in high turnover; an 
astor who executes a treacherous Tremere regent may find 
himself executed in turn for violations of a prince’s Tradition 
of Destruction. In many ways astors are like the internal 
affairs branch of the Tremere clan. Even though the clan 
does not have rules as rigid as a police force or a military 
organization, some lines simply just aren’t crossed, and the 
astor’s responsibility is to discipline his peers for the good 
of the common whole.
Supposedly, the astors have a host of special rituals used 
to expedite their tasks: rituals to occlude communications, to 
recognize other astors or to track scant evidence. Whether 
these are common to the astors as a whole or simply special ritu-
als made by individual astor thaumaturges remains unknown.


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
33
Children of the Pyramid
Just as some neonates latch on to the pyramid as a sur-
rogate parental structure to help them through the transition 
to undeath, some Tremere see the pyramid as more than just 
a hierarchy. To those wrapped up in the idea of the pyramid, 
the very concept holds power; it gains godhead from the 
adherence of its many followers. The Children of the Pyra-
Rogue-Hunting for Fun and Profit
Tremere dissidents almost universally find them-
selves in a desperate position — their own clan distrusts 
them, and in some cases even brings force to bear against 
them. The very Oath of the Tremere requires that any 
rogue be put to Final Death, hard terms against which 
to argue. Indeed, some Tremere posit that hunting ren-
egades is a necessary duty.
The truth of the matter, as with many things 
Tremere, remains slightly divergent from appearances. 
Rogues acquire their standing simply by virtue of incon-
veniencing or embarrassing higher-ranking members of 
the pyramid. It’s that simple: become a nuisance to a 
ranking regent and risk a rogue declaration. The regent 
can find a clause later to support his claim, and in the 
meantime apprentices hoping to curry the regent’s favor 
know that the rogue is fair game. Tremere know that a 
rogue declaration frequently has little more to it than 
political expedience, but the practice goes unchallenged 
because supporting it means that ranking Tremere can 
use it later. “In the interests of the Tremere clan” comes 
to mean “In my interests, but the clan’s a convenient 
excuse because I’m a loyal member.”
As with other matters hierarchical, rogue declara-
tions bow to the prevailing political winds. A regent 
who declares someone a rogue might find matters turned 
on his head if his lord decides that the rogue is more 
useful or the regent more threatening. A Tremere who 
finds himself declared anathema may manage to gain 
the protection of a different lord or regent if he proves 
useful enough, in which case a liberal tribunal can 
clear the rogue. Conversely, an unfortunate patsy may 
find himself a rogue without his knowledge, only to be 
hunted and disposed of by other Tremere seeking the 
favor of his accusers.
A rogue’s greatest enemies, though, remain hidden in 
the pyramid — Elites and astors. Both execute summary 
(and final) judgments upon rogues. More canny Tremere 
saddle rogues with blame. When an experiment goes 
awry, when an undertaking fails unexpectedly, when two 
competing Tremere need someone else to take the fall 
for their own destructive squabbles, the rogue becomes 
the source of all problems. A rogue can quickly acquire 
such a long list of atrocities that no one will stoop to 
helping him or clearing his name.


Clanbook: Tremere
34
mid thus hold that the pyramid itself represents the material 
authority of a godlike entity.
Children of the Pyramid meet in secret to discuss their 
spiritual advancement in addition to their clan duties. To the 
Children, adherence to the pyramid is not only a sensible 
structure but a near-religious duty. The Children thus rely 
heavily upon metaphors, especially upon an ancient sorcerous 
tome called The Travels of Fedoso, which tells the allegory of 
a wizard’s travels up a mountainside as a metaphor for the 
road to enlightenment. With quotations from the book, the 
Children recognize other adherents, and they discuss ways to 
rise through the ranks and become closer to their godhead. 
In their scheme, Tremere exists as the unliving Son of the 
Pyramid, a sort of vampiric apotheosis who has brought his 
enlightened way to his select children.
Naturally, the rather fanatical viewpoints of the Children 
make them useful — a Child of the Pyramid will jump to 
support a superior — but they’re also regarded as somewhat 
extreme. Few Tremere enjoy their company; most Children 
have an almost Puritanical sense of duty to the pyramid 
and a concomitant constant wariness for “traitors.” (The 
Hierarchical Sociology Disorder derangement [see p. 68] is 
a common aberration among this group.)
The Elite
Given their insular ways and special capabilities, Tremere 
Kindred have a decided difference from other vampires. Their 
very origin tells of their superiority in bringing on vampirism 
willingly, rather than suffering the indignity of a curse. These 
differences spread the poisonous doctrine of the Elite, who 
believe in the superiority of the Tremere over other clans and 
in the ultimate victory of the Tremere clan against all other 
Kindred in the Jyhad.
Members of the Elite work quietly to press their supremacy 
— a murdered Kindred here, a discredited rival there, a patsy 
indebted with Thaumaturgy in another place. Each one becomes 
a piece converted to serve the Tremere or removed entirely 
from the picture. The Elite jealously guard clan secrets and 
believe that the Tremere pyramid, the will of Tremere himself 
and their own talents show that the Tremere are not simply 
another clan, but a new step in vampire existence.
Some extremists among the already-radical Elite have 
taken to the dangerous practice of hunting other Kindred, 
especially those who uncover clan secrets. While ranking 
Tremere frown upon dissemination of clan information, they 
frown even more sternly upon crazed zealots making enemies 
through wanton killing, but this does not stop the Elite; they 
believe that natural Tremere superiority justifies their actions. 
Small groups of Elite apprentices covertly meet to discuss ways 
to make the clan strong, plots to topple Tremere “assimilators” 
who work freely with other Kindred, and means to destroy 
those few who manage to wrest Thaumaturgy or hidden lore 
from the Tremere. Indeed, it’s rumored that modern Elite 
require prospective members to hunt and kill a non-Tremere 
thaumaturge, and that they use special rituals to do so. Elite 
also participate actively in hunting down rogues, under the 
guise of cleansing their ranks of the unworthy.
Since its formation in the late 18th century, the fac-
tion has drawn its fair share of derision from the less rabid 
mainstream clan. The group’s activities meet a mixed recep-
tion. Elders publicly decry such heavy-handed tactics, but 
sometimes privately approve of the removal of a problem 
Kindred. Many Tremere consider the society little more than 
a bigoted gang, while members themselves rally to the cause 
of their own righteousness.
Traditionalists
Even though Tremere elders do not often involve 
themselves directly in the affairs of modern Kindred, they 
still exert a powerful ideological influence over the clan. 
Because many high-ranking positions are filled by elders, 
the inertia of these static creatures brings great weight to 
bear upon the clan.
Traditionalists believe that the Tremere clan must adhere 
to ancient practices in order to remain strong. Such Kindred 
shun modern technology and often retain old methods of 
speech or behavior. Progressive Kindred scoff at this as a 
simple attempt to justify their own inability to adapt to 
changing times, but the traditionalists have a very strong 
argument — Tremere strength comes from many secrets 
preserved unchanged for ages, and anything that compromises 
or outdates such secrets threatens the Tremere power base. 
With their formidable wills, aggressive personalities and pen-
chant for Thaumaturgy, the traditionalists frown upon such 
technologies as computers or global communications, and 
instead rely upon their Disciplines and cunning to perform 
similar analogues.
In addition to their reliance upon old, proven techniques, 
the traditionalists hold that all Tremere should follow in their 
footsteps — only loyalty to the clan and slow, methodical ex-
pansion leads to ranking authority. Because the traditionalists 
hold many positions of power, they can often hold this view 
over their subordinates; a reckless or progressive apprentice 
may find himself barred from promotion, simply because his 
traditionalist regent frowns upon his practices.
Partisan Nomenclature
Traditionalists and transitionalists are not formal 
parties; they are simply statements that refer to the 
degree of conservatism or liberalism of the vampires in 
question. Throughout the clan, Tremere sometimes join 
more formal (if smaller) secret societies that subscribe 
to traditional or transitional theories. The Society of 
Rhamatha, for example, is a traditional faction populous 
in northern Africa, while Crypto Cell is a transitional 
cabal of autarkis in Northern California. Storytellers 
and politically oriented Tremere players alike are en-
couraged to create or name their own factions of the 
political system.


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
35
Traditionalists make up one of the few fairly “public” 
orders among the Tremere clan. Most Tremere can pinpoint 
others as traditionalists or transitionalists (see below); such 
affiliations are much like a division between right-wing and 
left-wing politics. As with politics, members of this faction rely 
on their network of authoritative allies to retain power blocs, 
to stop the ambitions of lesser Tremere who do not cleave 
to their ideas and to convince underlings of their methods.
Transitionalists
Young and active Kindred realize that the world changes 
more quickly now than ever. Old ways become outdated 
almost nightly. A simple button-press, a piece of paper or a 
new discovery on the other side of the world can overturn 
supremacy in one moment. Transitionalist Tremere argue that 
the clan must accept and use all manner of new directions, be 
it computer technology, new thaumaturgical developments 
or adaptive social constructs.
Few elder Tremere number among the transitionalists; the 
Kindred penchant for stasis with age overcomes many Kin-
dred’s ability to accept innovation. Thus, the transitionalists 
have a strong groundswell of support from young Tremere 
who understand modern methodologies and see a chance to 
advance themselves at the expense of their outdated elders. 
In contrast, the elders see transitionalists as a threat, and 
reactively quash their ideas or ban their modern doctrines.
Despite their lack of acceptance among authoritative 
Tremere, the transitionalists remain a rather open faction. 
Young apprentices often approach fledglings to convince 
them of transitionalist ideas, or to show how elder sluggish-
ness prevents the clan (and its members) from keeping up 
with the cutting edge of possible advancement. Few elders 
bother to fight the transitionalists openly; rather, they simply 
keep transitionalists in research or advisory capacities while 
promoting to authority the stable Kindred who promote 
traditional values.
Guardians of Tradition
An extremely conservative chapter of traditionalists, the 
Guardians advocate the complete prevention of any modern 
policy shift. Reactionary Guardians fight against new thau-
maturgical developments, oppose the use of all technology 
more complex than a printing press, and cloister themselves 
away from other Kindred in order to scheme in secret.
Of course, Guardians have an increasingly difficult 
time existing in the modern world. Tremere who hole up in 
darkened rooms with candles and quill pens are often derided 
by young Tremere (out of earshot, usually). A Kindred who 
refuses even to learn to use the telephone suffers a serious 
disadvantage in dealings with others. Constant new develop-
ments in Thaumaturgy help to wound one’s rivals and offer 
hope of surviving Gehenna, but if they’re never accepted, 
the Guardians may fall to more adaptable enemies.
Still, Guardians have strong supporters. More than one 
Tremere remembers well the Long Night, when vampires 
ruled as lords of their midnight domains. The clan’s structure 
and Thaumaturgy carried it through the brutal clashes with 
their venerable foes and into prominence in the Camarilla; 
why should matters be any different now? Kindred fearful of 
the modern age or unable to adapt often cling to outmoded 
habits, and find solace in kinship with the few others who 
share their anachronistic condition. These conservatives 
snap at anyone who proposes what they don’t understand, 
and because some are elders with centuries of experience, 
they can be distressingly difficult to counter.
A few highly reactionary Guardians even espouse theories 
of eugenics, racial superiority or religious conservatism, but 
these sorts are increasingly rare in the modern nights. Little 
room remains for theological superiority when all Kindred 
are damned, and one’s skin color hardly matters compared 
to one’s prowess at subterfuge or blood magic.
The Guardians are probably not long for this world. They 
remain outmoded artifacts of a different age, but a new age 
comes. Still, they wield great personal power, and will not 
fade gently into irrelevance.
Defunct Orders
Many secret societies have not survived the transition to 
the modern world. Whether due to extinction at the hands 
of their fellows, a changing philosophical environment, ruin 
by outside threats or the inevitable change of fashionable 
causes, some factions of Tremere have disappeared utterly. 
Others exist in scattered cells, some numbering as few as two 
Kindred. Still, in the modern nights, legacy and timeless ideals 
are sometimes as important as functionality.
The Order of Naturists
Some early Tremere had ties to Druidic magic and 
similar practices of the cultures with which they surrounded 
themselves. Indeed, more than one mortal koldun helped 
shape the magical practices of the Eastern European Tremere 
clan, complete with their ties to Transylvania’s eldritch soil 
and forests. An order of pagan Lithuanian Tremere even 
flourished until the 1600s, calling themselves the Telyavs 
and Embracing from mortal nature cults.
Buried records hold that the various naturalistic influ-
ences on the Tremere clan led to a quiet few who sought 
out knowledge of their cousins in magical theory, and who 
gathered information about places of natural power. Over 
the years the faction dwindled; the few Naturists from these 
harsh times died or retreated to positions of obscurity and 
the utter destruction of the Telyavs shadowed the failure of 
such groups. By the turn of the 20th century, the Order of 
Naturists disappeared completely.
The Humanus League
The Humanus League historically comprised those rare 
Tremere who sought a rebirth of mortality. Following the 
stories of the elusive Comte St. Germain, who was rumored 
to have made a potion capable of restoring life, and hanging 
upon tales of Golconda and thaumaturgical transcendence, 


Clanbook: Tremere
36
the Kindred of the Humanus League sought to overcome 
their undead curse. They hoped that purification of their 
souls would allow them to rejoin the ranks of mortals, so they 
showed their love of mortality through charity, compassion 
and defense.
Of course, the demands of the Tremere hierarchy and 
the almost inescapable doom of vampirism leave little room 
for personal conscience. Stabbing one’s peers in the back 
makes maintenance of humanitas difficult. According to the 
journals of League member Kurtos Siemenicz, the Humanus 
League fell apart under the weight of its own squabbling 
membership within the past 10 years; anyone who survived 
long enough to acquire real influence or prestige in the clan 
ultimately had to accept the Beast. The Humanus League 
was betrayed from within, and its members abandoned the 
cause, sank into despairing torpor or were sternly admonished 
to return to the fold.
The Golden Path of Harmony
The diplomatic among Tremere work to foster bonds 
of strong loyalty. As long as Tremere can trust one another, 
they state, they can work for mutual advancement. Of course, 
this leads to the Prisoner’s Dilemma: if you have a chance to 
improve yourself by screwing someone else, and he has the 
same opportunity, odds are that you’ll take it as soon as you 
can. Better to put the screws to someone else before he can 
put them to you.
The Golden Path of Harmony sought to advance internal 
cooperation and trust. Of course, like their optimistic cousins 
in the Humanus League, the Path lacked a real vision of how 
to accomplish things. More than once, a “trusting” Kindred 
found himself betrayed by his peers. Instead of learning to 
deal with the treachery, the Path members simply turned 
the other cheek, which inevitably led to their decline. One 
member of the Golden Path even wound up the spectacular 
target of allegations including diablerie, infernalism, fratricide 
and giving offense to an elder, from four different sources. 
Such trusting souls don’t last long among the Tremere, often 
meeting Final Death as scapegoats or sacrificial lambs.
Policies and 
Practices
Given the rank structure in the Tremere clan, one wonders 
how it works in practice. Does a Tremere sublimate personal 
drives in favor of the clan? Obviously not. Does he ignore 
the hierarchy for individual gain? Again, no. The balance 
between the two makes for a narrow road, but those who 
walk that tightrope stand to gain much in Kindred society.
More than any other clan, the Tremere clan polices itself 
and exhorts its members to perform “for the good of the clan.” 
With the compelling power of the bond to the council and 
the psychological weight of the code applied shortly after the 
Embrace, various Tremere elders can often convince neonates 
to work on their behalf without much prestation. Similarly, 
young Tremere discover that their activities can bring com-
mensurate rewards that no other vampire clan can bestow. 
The Tremere who would survive takes clan duties hand in 
hand with personal desires.
Responsibilities
While ranking members of the Tremere pyramid exercise 
great authority, they also have commensurate responsibilities. 
Pontifices oversee whole regions and report their progress to 
the councilors. One poorly timed border skirmish or economic 
downturn can ruin a pontifex’s year and place the unfortunate 
Kindred on the outs with the council, a frustration that the 
pontifex may well take out on her subordinates.
A Tremere’s responsibilities often rely on her own sense 
of priorities. Often, a higher-ranking Tremere makes sugges-
tions or requests, but these are hardly orders. Instead, a wise 
Tremere couches matters in terms that are advantageous to 
both parties. A regent motivates apprentices with tasks that 
benefit the entire clan, and especially that show a benefit to 
all Tremere in the city. Apprentices jockey for favors by trad-
ing carefully hoarded knowledge or prestation boons. Loyalty 
brings rewards, but sometimes a little initiative on the side 
may bring more — few apprentices would give up the chance 
to learn a bit of “special” blood magic despite prohibitions 
by superiors. A Tremere who desires position in the pyramid 
takes on responsibility for the clan; a Tremere who wants to 
advance personal goals simply doesn’t volunteer for such jobs 
or performs the minimum requested by superiors.
When dealing with lords and pontifices, though, re-
sponsibilities become fairly rigid. By the time a Tremere’s 
advanced to high rank in the pyramid, responsibility is an 
expectation. Of all the clans the Tremere are the ones most 
likely to be motivated by “the good of the clan,” and this 
shows in large-scale dealings. Every Tremere checks over his 
shoulder to make sure that his actions won’t bring down the 
fury of his elders, and then again to see if anyone’s watching.
So what, exactly, does a Tremere do? This depends 
upon the locale and the individual’s skills. Most Tremere 
are expected to use their talents on behalf of clan interests 
— that’s probably why they were Embraced, after all. A 
Tremere diplomat handles negotiations with other clans. 
A financier makes sure that projects have enough money. 
Research specialists uncover lost rituals or new uses of old 
rituals and disseminate them.
Clan responsibilities don’t take up all of a Tremere’s time. 
There’s no sense in keeping apprentices chained to their desks 
in a Dickensian chantry; that simply breeds resentment and 
rebellion. Leaders among the Tremere are (generally) smart 
enough to recognize that clan interests come second to the 
nightly unlife of Kindred. How effective can a diplomat be 
if he’s still working through problems with his mortal family 
and isn’t given the time needed to resolve them? How useful 
is a financier if he suddenly disappears from sight of all his 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
37
accounts? The Tremere’s responsibility is to improve himself 
and to bring the occasional project of value to the clan, but 
how he does so is up to him.
Generating Results
Tremere respect success — and repeated success is often 
more valuable than following the rules. Any neonate can 
blindly follow rules. Truly innovative Kindred learn which 
rules are sacrosanct and which are flexible, and how to use 
the rules to their own advantage. Personal initiative separates 
the leaders from the followers. Neonates risk much in the 
struggle to improve their lot — five-century-old Kindred are 
notoriously paranoid about subordinates who bend rules and 
break with expected behavior patterns around them — but 
some consider the rewards worthwhile.
As with any chain of authority, the Tremere pyramid 
has insiders and outsiders. Those who respect the author-
ity of elders above them in the pyramid, who carry out the 
responsibilities given to the clan, and who serve with an 
eye toward advancing Tremere interests as a whole gain rec-
ognition for their efforts, so long as they remain successful. 
Tremere who do not respect this authority, who play fast and 
loose with the rules, and who engage in their own projects 
find themselves on the outside, unable to call on the support 
of their fellows. For the most part, Tremere internal politics 
are a matter of slow migration either into or out of positions 
of power. Only rarely does a Tremere become such a threat 
to the clan’s overall security as to bring down the final and 
fatal wrath of elders.
Discerning the right mode of behavior is like trying 
to figure out how to write an academic’s dissertation: the 
Tremere must figure out what her superiors want, what the 
clan needs, and how it can all mesh with her aptitudes. An 
apprentice who hungers for promotion may see that financial 
strengths in the area are low, and then decide to parlay or 
otherwise acquire influence over a local bank; she manages to 
improve her holdings, and at the same time she gains a valued 
resource. Other clan members call upon her for favors with 
her resource, which she gladly obliges in return for training 
or considerations. She advances in rank, but remains aware 
of her peers — when a jealous peer tries to co-opt her opera-
tions, she brings up the fact that he’s dividing clan assets and 
weakening the overall structure, which sways her elders to 
her side. More hopeful young Tremere look up to her as a 
success, so she’s careful to indulge them with the occasional 
favor — one never knows who might earn promotions and 
who may have an important resource tomorrow night. When 
her regent insists that she turn over a boon with a local Ca-
marilla Kindred, she declines and then parlays the boon into 
new contacts in the financial district — and greater resources 
for herself… oh, and for the clan, too, of course. Her success 
may alienate the regent, but it also causes him to lose prestige 
with the clan and brings her to the positive attention of the 
local lord. And on it goes…. The Tremere clan is rife with 
such success stories; those who fail, well, they always serve 
as fine negative examples.
The Screw Job
Take two possible methods of advancement: work long 
and hard  for personal recognition and hope that it pays off 
in the form of an eventual promotion; or, create an opening 
and place yourself in it. Confronted with a pyramid stacked 
with monolithic elders who can never die naturally and 
never leave, many Tremere quickly come to the inevitable 
conclusion that loyalty alone won’t be enough.
To some degree, Tremere elders encourage infighting. 
Competition keeps the clan healthy (as healthy as a nest of 
backstabbing, power-hungry, blood-sucking undead oath-
breakers can be) and weeds out weak elements. A Tremere 
who isn’t perceptive enough to see treachery coming is vul-
nerable to treachery from non-Tremere as well, and could be 
a security risk. The constant struggle keeps ranking members 
like regents and lords from becoming complacent, and forces 
ambitious Tremere to exploit flaws in the clan or to come up 
with truly innovative approaches to problems.
While the nominal, if artificial, loyalty to the Council of 
Seven engendered by the blood imbibed after their Embrace 
keeps many Tremere from fighting clan ideals wholesale, 
nothing keeps a Tremere loyal to his peers. If an apprentice 
errs, point it out to the regent and earn a promotion — or 
cover it up and keep him in your debt. When a regent makes 
unreasonable demands, quietly go over his head to show how 
his plan’s a failure — or feed him enough influence to hang 
himself in front of the lord. Given a chance to learn a new 
ritual or meet a new ally, grab it and use it as leverage against 
other ambitious Kindred.
Of course, uncertain Tremere fear retaliation from angry 
peers. A properly executed screw job sidesteps this by leaning 
on the pyramid. If you feed the regent false information, and 
he fouls up all the planning for a new chantry, well, that was 
his responsibility; when you claim your promotion and he’s 
cataloguing New Age paperbacks in the suburbs, you’re in 
charge and there’s not a damn thing he can do. If you seize 
a new opportunity for thaumaturgical knowledge and push 
someone else out of the way, too bad; you know it and they 
don’t, and they have to bow to your whims in order to learn 
anything from you. Give the prince a little boon, give your 
adversary a “peace gift” of some influence, then let the prince 
deal with your rival for stepping on his domain — you’re 
protected by the Traditions and the status system.
Humane Tremere sometimes look askance at the screw 
job. Why advance at the expense of clanmates when working 
together will bring better results? There’s only enough room 
at the top — and the ones there aren’t going anywhere unless 
the pedestals are kicked out from under them. Besides, as Fidel 
Castro said, “Use it, or they will use it on you.” A Tremere 
who “humanely” refrains from screwing his peers may well 
become the target of such actions himself.


Clanbook: Tremere
38
Law and Internal Policing
The Tremere Code marks the clan as unique; no other 
group adheres to a unified set of rules that delineate accept-
able behavior. While Assamites have the words of their 
prophets, and Setites follow the parables of their dead god, 
the Tremere one and all take a singular oath handed down 
from the council.
No compelling magic binds any Tremere to the oath, un-
less some stern regent actively decides to enforce it; instead, 
the code is a de facto listing of what consitutes acceptable 
behavior for a member of the august House of Tremere. The 
code elaborates on what’s expected of Tremere, and what 
activities would earn disfavor.
Because the code is simply a normal oath, few Tremere 
follow it to the letter. Indeed, substantial advantages can be 
gained by flexibly “interpreting” the code; often, with the 
rule of success, such interpretations may be excused on an 
individual basis if the results seem promising. However, the 
The Tremere Code
 The following section reproduces the proper oath as spoken by a neonate upon her Embrace into Clan Tremere. This 
incarnation of the oath is the most common, believed to date back to the middle of the 15th century, supposedly inscribed through 
thaumaturgical ritual as it passed the lips of Tremere himself.
Variations of the oath do exist, whether as a result of imprecise translations from primary sources, the desires of less-than-
scrupulous sires or even fashions of the time. Indeed, one cabal of Tremere even adapted the motto of the French Republic as 
their oath at the very end of the 18th century — but such was deemed inappropriately liberal by the French pontifex at the time.
I, [initiate’s name], hereby swear my everlasting loyalty to House and Clan Tremere and all its members. I am of 
their blood, and they are of mine. We share our lives, our goals and our achievements. I shall obey those the House 
sees fit to name my superiors, and treat my inferiors with all the respect and care they earn for themselves.
I will not deprive nor attempt to deprive any member of House and Clan Tremere of his magical power. To do so 
would be to act against the strength of our House. I will not slay nor attempt to slay any member of the House and 
Clan except in self-defense, or when a magus has been ruled outlaw by a properly constituted tribunal. If a magus has 
been ruled an outlaw, I shall bend all efforts to bring such magus to justice.
I will abide by all decisions of the tribunals, and respectfully honor the wishes of the Inner Council of Seven and 
the wishes of my superiors. The tribunals shall be bound by the spirit of the Code of Tremere, as supplemented by 
the Peripheral Code and interpreted by a properly constituted body of magi. I have the right to appeal a decision to a 
higher tribunal, if they should agree to hear my case.
I will not endanger House and Clan Tremere through my actions. Nor will I interfere with the affairs of mundanes 
in any way that brings ruin upon my House and Clan. I will not, when dealing with devils, or others, in any way bring 
danger to the clan, nor will I disturb the faeries in any way that should cause them to take their vengeance on the 
House and Clan. I also swear to uphold the values and goals of the Camarilla, and I will maintain the Masquerade. 
Insofar as these goals may conflict with my goals, I will not pursue my own ends in any way that would endanger the 
Masquerade. The strength of the House and Clan Tremere depends on the strength of the Masquerade.
I will not use magic to scry upon members of the House and Clan Tremere, nor shall I use it to peer into their 
affairs. It is expressly forbidden.
I will train only apprentices who will swear to this code, and should any of them turn against the House and Clan, 
I shall be the first to strike them down and bring them to justice. No apprentice of mine shall be called magus until 
he first swears to uphold the code. I shall treat my apprentices with the care and respect that they earn.
I concede to my elders the right to take my apprentice should it be found that my apprentice is valuable to an 
elder’s work. All are members of the House and Clan and valuable first to these precepts. I shall abide by the right of 
my superiors to make such decisions.
I shall further the knowledge of the House and Clan and share with its members all that I find in my search for 
wisdom and power. No secrets are to be kept, or given, regarding the arts of magic, nor shall I keep secret the doings 
of others which might bring harm to the House and Clan.
I demand that, should I break this oath, I should be cast out of the House and Clan. If I am cast out, I ask my 
brothers to find and slay me that my life may not continue in degradation and infamy.
I recognize that the enemies of the House and Clan are my enemies, that the friends of the House and Clan are 
my friends, and that the allies of the House and Clan are my allies. Let us work as one and grow hale and strong.
I hereby swear this oath on [current date]. Woe to they who try to tempt me to break this oath, and woe to me 
if I succumb to such temptation.


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
39
code also serves as justification should a Tremere elder feel 
the need to come down with harsh force upon a lesser, and 
thus lets the elder give the clan a publicly acceptable face 
to his vendetta.
In addition to the code itself, most ranking Tremere 
(those who manage to rise to the third circle of apprentice-
ship and beyond) slowly unearth the so-called Peripheral 
Code — the exceptions, assumptions and loopholes. While 
a neonate may wither under the weight of the code, a canny 
regent probably knows at least one or two exceptions to usual 
procedure. Like lobbyists in Congress, Tremere elders add to 
the Peripheral Code in order to provide an authoritative excuse 
for their actions. Exceptions include obscure and specific lines 
like “Dealing with faeries is permissible for members of the 
Augsburg Chantry during the new moon in the years A.D. 
1617 to 1621”, or even personal exemptions from parts of the 
code for individuals. Ultimately the code is simply another 
tool, not the end-all of Tremere policy.
Tribunals
Although the Tremere don’t necessarily pursue their 
code or their promotion rigorously, the elders accept only so 
much. When a Tremere becomes a threat to secrecy, man-
ages to seriously confound a clan-important project or just 
needs a good public thrashing, the elders call for a tribunal.
Tribunal covers serious disputes. Typically, seven to 12 
regents preside over a tribunal, and one tribunal convenes 
each year to deal with pending business. In emergency cases, 
regents can also be called to convene a tribunal on the spot. 
The eldest ranking member takes the title of praeco, and 
oversees the order of the tribunal.
A tribunal carries the authority of the clan in all its 
judgments. Any tribunal judgment enters the Peripheral 
Code; this sets precedent internally. Because multiple regents 
oversee the process, it’s nearly impossible to tamper with 
them all at once, so the use of political influence is mitigated. 
The tribunal considers evidence and hands down a decision, 
covering cases where charges are brought against a Tremere 
for problematic behavior or in disputes where truculent peers 
cannot reach a compromise. The subjects are fully expected 
to endorse the results of the tribunal; because these orders 
come from a collection of Kindred and not just one lone 
superior, it’s much more difficult to flout them.
A tribunal can mandate anything from stripping rank 
or status to Final Death, but this last is rare. Most Tremere 
would never want to be dragged into a tribunal, and even 
the presiding regents remain keenly aware that a tribunal’s 
results are as political as procedural. Furthermore, actually 
executing a Tremere Kindred is a grave step. Only when 
multiple ranking Tremere felt threatened by a rogue’s ac-
tions — or when one desperately needs an enemy out of the 
way — could such a step be taken.
Anarchs, Autarkis and Rogues
Outside the usual Tremere hierarchy exist those who 
renounce Tremere ties or who simply don’t bother with the 
system. Most such “failures” are grudgingly tolerated, gener-
ally because of the inconvenience the Tremere would have 
to suffer to deal with them, but they can expect no help from 
other Tremere. An anarch may be an insightful contact, but 
without a rank he has no place in the pyramid and thus no 
sway with the rest of the clan. Besides, dealing with such loose 
cannons can be taken as a sign of weakness or disloyalty, so 
it’s discouraged by regents and higher-ranking Tremere.
Autarkis Tremere have a difficult existence — they 
renounce Kindred society, refuse to bother with the pyramid 
What You Can Get Away With
With all the missteps possible in the Tremere clan, the short list of acceptable behavior seems vanishingly small. 
Still, it’s possible to claw one’s way up the pyramid, so long as one is clever and lucky. Even this isn’t a hard-and-fast 
doctrine — it’s simply advice on how to avoid trouble.
What You Can…	
	
	
	
What You Can’t…
Improve your skills, Disciplines and usefulness	
Study something your superior expressly forbids, like demonology
Use your influence for personal projects	
	
Use your influence to sabotage your superior’s projects
Blame your contemporary for problems	
	
Blame your contemporary for problems when your superior gets 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
on with him better
Trade your specialized skills for training	
	
Trade Thaumaturgy to non-Tremere for training
Support Camarilla hierarchy and prestation	 	
Support a Camarilla hierarchy that limits the Tremere
Dispatch rogues who threaten Tremere interests	
Dispatch rogues in a way that makes you look overzealous
Get ahead	
	
	
	
	
Get caught
And, of course, anything that one can’t do, one can’t do unless she finds some way to cover her own ass. So long as 
someone or something shields her from the political consequences, a Tremere can use “forbidden” techniques to make 
her fortune. But once her protection disappears, a Kindred may find herself the first against the wall. Cheat to excel, 
but only with discretion.


Clanbook: Tremere
40
and pay no attention to sects. Such Tremere are most com-
mon among the jaded ranks of modern neonates. Elders hold 
too much valuable information to be allowed to go their own 
way. Once an autarkis, a Tremere can expect little but social 
snubbing from other Tremere. An autarkis has no hope of 
gaining rank or setting policy, so other Tremere don’t expect 
him to be worth their time in currying favor. The possibility 
of selling Thaumaturgy looms as an ever-present accusation. 
The autarkis has his personal freedom, but has no clan to 
back him, while at the same time other Kindred who know 
of his lineage label him as a Tremere and consider him a spy 
or traitor. Reconciliation may be possible… if the autarkis 
agrees to a bond to the council. Few Tremere autarkis survive 
long; they are destroyed by other Kindred, hunted for their 
thaumaturgical secrets, or they become pawns in some other 
Tremere’s schemes.
Tremere anarchs hover on the fringes of acceptability. 
Technically, the Tremere Code requires adherence to the 
Camarilla, but the Convention of Thorns also guarantees 
anarchs a place with that organization. A Tremere anarch 
rejects conventional Camarilla authority, and often turns up 
his nose at the pyramid as well. So long as the anarch doesn’t 
rock the boat too much, such behavior remains ignored. 
Sending loyal Tremere out to hunt down an anarch, prob-
ably in territory with his friends and without the influence 
of the Camarilla, is a waste of resources. Like an autarkis, an 
anarch is unlikely to have much clout within the pyramid. 
However, anarchs do have their own society, albeit small. As 
such, the pyramid does like to keep an eye on what its anarchs 
do from time to time. An anarch Tremere who doesn’t mind 
selling out his comrades on occasion may still be able to find 
“contract work” or the odd boon with the pyramid.
Rogues include those who have most horribly broken 
with the clan. While disinterested or slightly rebellious Tre-
mere might be considered autarkis or just errant apprentices, 
a rogue’s actions have damned her in the eyes of the clan. 
This may be for substantive reasons like diablerie, teaching 
Thaumaturgy to those outside the clan or destroying an elder, 
or it may be a result of political gamesmanship ending in 
the probable demise of the unfortunate. The Tremere Code 
outlines the behaviors that make a renegade, but in practice 
only a properly convened tribunal can declare a sentence 
of rogue or pass final judgment (though this may be done in 
absentia). Such practice is quite rare — while few Tremere 
would mourn the passing of an adversary, none want dec-
larations of rogues to become common enough to possibly 
encompass themselves.
Servants and Minions
Long histories as advisors to leaders and teachers of the 
arcane par excellance rank the Tremere as common users of var-
ied minions. In their early nights, the Tremere experimented 
with the thaumaturgical creation of companions, but in the 
modern age most content themselves with the same resources 
that other Kindred use — allies, ghouls, Dominated mortals, 
herds, blackmail, fiscal influence and so on.
Ghouls
Tremere ghouls occupy a special niche inside the clan. 
While still mortal, and thus inferior to ranking Tremere, 
ghouls to the clan are often picked for special talents or 
potential Embrace. Exceptional ghouls might even learn 
rudimentary Thaumaturgy to supplement the skills of their 
domitors. They may be given charge of various mundane 
operations when the chantry doesn’t have enough apprentices 
to deal with everything. The lure of immortality for Tremere 
ghouls is compounded with the promise of secret power and 
occult strength. These ghouls have a manifold loyalty: The 
Tremere reward system applies to ghouls just as well as it 
does to apprentices, and even the basest secrets learned by 
Tremere neonates can be startling revelations to a ghoul. 
The simplest powers of the Curse only whet the appetite for 
more, which keeps ghouls coming back even in the face of 
their bleak indentured servitude.
It’s possible, using the Transubstantiation of Seven ritual, 
to bind a ghoul to the Inner Council; this is almost never 
done, of course — a ghoul is an expendable and ultimately 
fragile, mortal resource. However, many Tremere Embrace 
candidates spend at least a modicum of time as ghouls, both 
to see how they adapt to the pressures of the Beast and to 
evaluate their fitness to join the ranks.
Revenants
One of the many Tremere secrets is their limited access 
to a resource that no other Camarilla clan commands — a 
revenant family. During the struggle between the Carpathian 
Tzimisce and the nascent Tremere, the Krevcheski family 
saw a chance to free itself from the loathsome bondage to 
the Tzimisce, and cast its fortunes with the Tremere instead. 
Although the Tzimisce-loyal members suffered horribly, the 
family survived as a Tremere-protected group and became 
the Ducheski. Already twisted into revenants by the hoary 
witchcraft of the Tzimisce, the family passed on its heritage, 
aided by the few Tremere who understood enough about the 
peculiarities of the blood to ensure successful breeding for 
revenant characteristics.
Today, two large estates (one in Europe, one in the 
United States) remain the family holdings of the Ducheski 
revenants. Each estate is managed by a nominal head of the 
family, who holds the position by dint of age. Additionally, 
regents of the areas look into family matters and finances, 
and find suitable candidates for “special projects.” Careful 
selection of breeding insures that the family produces at least 
a few revenants every generation, while the constant scrutiny 
of the Tremere has built a hivelike loyalty into the family.
Notably, Ducheski revenants almost never receive the 
Embrace. The circumstances of their creation typically inspire 
loyalty to the Tremere clan, but most have little initiative 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
41
or social skill. Like other mortals, the Ducheski are fleshly 
tools and little more.
More information about the Ducheski revenants may be 
found in Blood Magic: Secrets of Thaumaturgy.
Homunculi
For menial laboratory tasks, a Tremere can rely on 
a ghoul or apprentice, but such intelligent servitors usu-
ally resent dirty work. Instead, experienced thaumaturges 
create their own servants, grotesque animated creatures 
called homunculi.
A homunculus is created with the ritual Soul of the 
Homunculus (see p. 63). Because they are created artificially, 
they are unfailingly loyal; homunculi are prefered servants 
for work around chantries where Tremere possess the ability 
to create them. Of course, a homunculus also counts as a 
terrible breach of the Masquerade, so most Tremere leave 
these “pets” at home.
It’s rumored that at least once in the past a homunculus 
managed to befoul a ritual in a laboratory and dispatch its 
master in a conflagration, so that it might run free. Academic 
Tremere argue that the bonds of Identity between homun-
culus and master are too powerful for such a fantastic event 
to occur, but who would know for certain?
Gargoyles
Since their days among mortals, the Tremere have been 
fascinated with evolution, creation and control. Although 
some say that early eugenic cryptozoologists of the clan de-
veloped the Gargoyles as defense from the repeated assaults 
on Tremere chantries by other clans, in truth their creation 
was as much due to the desire to create “life” as to protect the 
chantries. Very little information on the original creation of 
this sub-race of Kindred still exists. Some of the experimenters 
joined the Sabbat, and shortly after, most of the journals and 
records documenting the process were destroyed during Tre-
mere infighting and the attempts of these few antitribu to atone 
for the slave race they helped spawn. Still, the information 
that does linger in the notes and journals of the apprentices 
gives us insight into not only the creation method, but the 
ideals and intent behind their inception. Depending on the 
source of information, Gargoyles are alternately the “great-
est creation of the Tremere” or “a prodigal plague upon the 
house that gave them life.”
At the beginning, the records state that there were 14 
Gargoyles created at the Ceoris chantry, all supervised by one 
of the three most trusted sorcerers in charge of the task. In 
the process of building these creatures, as many as a hundred 
other Kindred — Nosferatu, Tzimice, Gangrel and others 
— were destroyed. Mistakes were made, but the Tremere 
used every opportunity to record the nature of Kindred vitae 
and life-force. The Gargoyles were a project that allowed 
the scholars of the Tremere a unique opportunity to dissect 
exactly how vampirism worked, what kept the undead body 
animated, and how the Curse functioned — scientifically, 


Clanbook: Tremere
42
of course. Without these bloody experiments, the Tremere’s 
knowledge of such things would be sorely lacking.
It cannot be denied that without the Gargoyles, sig-
nificant chantries in Europe, as well as the unlives of many 
Tremere, would have been lost. But is that worth the sacrifices 
of clanmates and blood that occurred while perfecting the 
process of creation? The question still haunts the Tremere 
in the eyes of every escaped Slave.
Historically, the ancestry of the Gargoyles is unique. 
Their creation was intended to produce a servitor race with 
little intelligence and no true sense of self or consciousness. 
The creators’ experiments were successful beyond their wild-
est thoughts — or perhaps, they were the greatest failure of 
thaumaturgical experimentation. After all, the “dogs” they 
had intended to produce rapidly re-learned speech, began 
to establish internal societal order, and showed rudimentary 
intellect. They still retained the drive for blood, and the Beast 
that lurks within all vampires, yet they had forgotten their 
pasts and their former lives. The Gargoyles were nothing if 
not sentient tools of the Tremere.
Since their inception, the Gargoyles have been used 
as scouts, warriors and sentries, each created with different 
qualifications, as befitted their stations in life. They were 
engineered — yes, even so long ago, that term still applied 
— to whatever task their masters required. And while they 
were at peace, their service was admirable. Only when they 
began to discover that their existence had boundaries did 
the Gargoyles begin to struggle against their masters’ yoke. 
As a parent with an errant child, the Tremere attempted to 
correct such urges, but the beasts demanded freedom — a 
freedom some say those early thaumaturges should have 
never given. Gargoyles are monsters, vampires by virtue of 
the blood through which they “occur,” and not through their 
own choice or virtue. They are no more than the restitched 
detritus of other clans, given a second chance to prove their 
worth as servants within Warlock chantries. Those who fail 
often suffer the Final Death; most Tremere agree, it is all 
they deserve.
Embracees
To hear them tell it, Tremere Embrace mortals only from a 
very select group: geniuses, psychics, craftmasters and leaders. 
Certainly, a strong will and a formidable skill exist in most 
Tremere recruits. Tremere will Embrace for talent, especially 
magical talent, but as in all things there are exceptions.
New Tremere recruits typically require approval from a 
local regent, in addition to a city’s Kindred prince. If some 
apprentice wants to bring in fresh blood, the regent needs 
to sanction the Embrace. The apprentice can, of course, do 
what he wants, with the usual risks for disobedience. In some 
cases apprentices have built their own broods to topple their 
regents, but similarly some regents have turned over their own 
apprentices for violations of the Tradition of Progeny. This 
weeding process keeps prospective sires on their toes; unlike 
other clans where members can be Embraced at personal pref-
erence, the Tremere must be mindful of their clan’s priorities.
On the flip side, all the reasons that can drive a sire to 
Embrace someone can apply just as easily to Tremere as to 
any other Kindred. A Tremere could very well sire someone 
out of passion, rebellion, need or loneliness. Such neonates 
are a mixed lot; most have one chance to enter the pyramid 
and find a useful and productive place. Indeed, such random 
Embraces do occasionally bring in disparate elements that 
the clan wouldn’t have considered fit. More often, though, 
sire and childe find themselves snubbed for their defiance; 
a childe could even advance his position by selling out his 
own sire in such a case. Apparently, nothing touched by the 
tainted blood of the Tremere ever remains whole.
The Sabbat
Once, the Sabbat claimed to be an asylum for any 
disenfranchised Cainites who shunned the Camarilla’s 
elder tyranny from the nights of the Anarch Revolt on. No 
more — the Tremere are a very certain reminder that what 
the Sabbat’s wild chaos can claim, the Camarilla’s ordered 
precision can crush.
Goratrix, the creator of the transformation potion and 
one of Tremere’s trusted advisors, turned on the clan and fled 
to the Sabbat with a few disaffected cohorts. Speculation 
varies as to motive: some think that Etrius finally gained an 
upper hand in competition with Goratrix for the progenitor’s 
favor. Others believe that Goratrix was merely a plant in the 
Sabbat, filtering information back to Tremere. In the end, 
it does not matter. The Tremere of the Sabbat were marked 
and hunted, and finally paid a horrific price for their treason.
The Rite of Betrayers
As the Tremere had weaned themselves on magic and 
fought against the Fiends of the Old World, it should come 
as no surprise that a few thaumaturges had a passing familiar-
ity with koldunic sorcery — or at least with ways to detect 
and counter the Tzimisce’s prime sorceries. The lynchpin of 
Tremere response to the Sabbat came through an organized 
ritual. Able to build world-spanning magic through their 
dedicated ranks, the Tremere laid a curse on those of their 
blood who would partake of the Vaulderie. Any of Tremere 
lineage who participated in the blood-sharing rituals of the 
Black Hand became irrevocably marked. As the Vaulderie 
engendered loyalty through blood — and the Tremere were 
intimately familiar with the magic in blood — it was possible 
(though not particularly simple) to build the Rite of Betrayers.
As with the other tremendous curses levied by the Tremere 
clan in its entirety, only Tremere himself and the Council 
of Seven could definitively explain the rite. In brief, the 
rite ties intimately to those of Tremere blood (much as the 
Assamite curse functions on that bloodline). Any Tremere 
who participates the Vaulderie gains the Betrayer’s sigil, a 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
43
mystic rune afflicting the cursed’s forehead, visible to others 
of Tremere blood.
The Rite of Betrayers is not merely an inconvenience, 
though. When a Tremere first receives the Vaulderie, the 
rite makes itself quite painfully known — the mark of the 
Betrayer burns into the victim’s forehead. The Tremere 
experiences the excruciating pain of a brand pressed to his 
flesh. It is rumored that in some instances, traitorous Tremere 
have burst into flames and died, but this is always a tale told 
by an acquaintance of a childe of a mysterious wanderer or 
some equally distant source.
Once branded, the Tremere’s mark of betrayal remains 
livid, a black spot marred by flickering as of hot ashes. Al-
though the injury heals over by the next night, the shimmers 
of flame remain visible to any other Tremere who might 
see it. Even if the Tremere purges himself of the Vinculum 
blood-ties and avoids the Vaulderie thereafter, the mark 
remains permanent.
Curiously, the Rite of Betrayers has no effect on those 
rare Kindred who are immune to the blood bond — in 
theory, because no Vinculi can form to bind such subjects, 
the rite doesn’t take effect. It’s rumored that one or two 
antitribu discovered a means to temporarily suppress the 
mark, but if so, such secrets must have gone with them to 
their ashen pyres.
In 1998, Goratrix called a meeting of his entire brood in 
Mexico City. All Sabbat Tremere attended. In a conflagra-
tion, the entirety of the Tremere antitribu died; only pillars 
of ash remained to tell their tale. In truth, Tremere himself 
arrived. With powerful magics he overtook Goratrix’s body, 
then destroyed those who would dare betray his line.
Modern Sabbat Tremere
Nothing prevents Tremere from joining the ranks of 
the Sabbat. Except, of course, their own consciences, their 
superiors, the threat of a hunt from the entire Camarilla, 
the lack of any associates in the Sabbat, the blood-hungry 
Tzimisce and Salubri antitribu….
In theory, a Tremere can defect to the Sabbat any time 
she wants. However, the Tremere antitribu, the separate 
bloodline established by Goratrix, are no more. A Tremere 
who makes her way into the Sabbat (and survives…) still 
suffers from the Rite of Betrayers if she participates in the 
Vaulderie, but she’s not explicitly antitribu. Rather, she’s just 
a Tremere with Sabbat allegiance.
Sabbat Tremere are unlikely in the extreme; it’s not as 
if the Sabbat has much to offer the relatively conservative 
Warlocks, nor as if the Tremere could expect solace and 
sanctuary among such monsters while his own expatriate clan 
hunted him. A Tremere who deliberately chooses to join the 
Sabbat foregoes all the strengths of his own clan and replaces 
them with enemies — which is probably why few modern 
Tremere have defected, especially after the spectacular disap-
pearance of the antitribu.
Of course, nothing prevents Tremere Kindred from 
dealing with members of the Sabbat on their own terms. 
Rumors abound of Sabbat Thaumaturgy making its way 
into the hands of Camarilla Tremere, and if Final Death 
was the punishment for every wild accusation of “contacts 
with Mexico City,” well, the clan certainly wouldn’t be as 
populous as it is.
Some Choice 
Words
Whether entertaining non-Tremere requests for thau-
maturgical favors, crawling through the mausoleum of a 
torpid elder in search of blood or simply weathering an an-
nual Elysium, the Tremere are no strangers to their fellow 
Kindred. Relations vary widely, of course, but the nature 
of the Kindred is one of xenophobia and prejudice. It is no 
wonder, then, that many Tremere have formed opinions of 
their blood-siblings — even those they may never have met.…
The Camarilla
“We founded the Camarilla. Certainly the Toreador 
eloquently argued for its inception, and the Ventrue staunchly 
defended its principles, but there’s a power behind every throne. 
Look in any strong domain, and there’s a Tremere present. 
Read the histories, and realize that the Camarilla never would 
have survived without our intervention against the Assamites, 
our magic against the Sabbat and our political support to sway 
the other clans.
“Certainly, the Camarilla has its uses. The Masquerade 
protects us from terrible retribution from humanity; if you think 
that humans would react poorly to vampires, think about how most 
Last of the Antitribu
As written, no antitribu survived Tremere’s purge. 
The entire bloodline died in a fiery apocalypse. Presum-
ably, this includes any Tremere antitribu characters: they 
burnt to cinders with their brethren in the purge.
On one hand, you wouldn’t be playing Vampire if 
you didn’t get something out of horrific and desperate 
stories that culminate in tragedy. Still, it’s bad form just 
to tell a player out of hand “Sorry, you can’t play any-
more.” Storytellers might allow the character to survive, 
perhaps as one of the last few Tremere antitribu. A more 
reasonable approach is to work these events into the 
ongoing chronicle; give the character a chance to ac-
complish some task of import or to resolve some thread 
before he meets his final doom, then let the player open 
a new page with a different character.
Of course, you can always decide to keep some anti-
tribu around, but if every chronicle out there has one of 
“the last Tremere antitribu,” how special are they? This 
is the World of Darkness — better to let them stand as 
grim testimony to the coming Gehenna.


Clanbook: Tremere
44
would handle vampire sorcerers. The age-old system of status keeps 
rebellious elements in check, promotes cooperation and gives us a 
stable society. Indeed, the Camarilla in many ways emulates the 
model of our own clan.
“Even though they are our allies, we have some secrets that 
the Camarilla must never know. Our powers may protect the 
Camarilla, but discovery of our secrets would tear it apart. To 
defend the Camarilla, we must hide our true power and turn its 
every resource to our advantage, even as it blindly and unknow-
ingly follows our lead.”
The Sabbat
“Despicable, monstrous, traitorous — the Sabbat represent 
the wild, uncontrolled elements of our kind. It is the inchoate Beast 
given form. Any apprentice can tell the dangers of great power 
without proper control. The Sabbat would give over the might of 
the elders to raw neonates or bloodthirsty maniacs, and then claim 
that such ‘liberation’ will save the world.
“Of course, their crusade against the Antediluvians pits us 
against them, as we all faithfully serve Tremere. Naturally. But 
our founder showed that even Antediluvians can be bested, so long 
as one does so with discipline, organization and total self-mastery.”
Brujah
“Had they any courage to their convictions, the Brujah would 
all join the Sabbat. As it is, they content themselves with railing 
against the Camarilla, while they quietly pocket its benefits. Much 
like any other liberals.…
“The Brujah serve as a perfect example of the need for proper 
organization. Just show any rebellious childe a Brujah and the 
point’s made. After 10 millennia, all they can do is bemoan their 
lost culture and crack one another’s skulls. What a wonderfully 
pointless bunch. Of course, that means that they can’t possibly 
organize well enough to stop us when we must take action.”
Malkavians
“Such a curious insight! Every Malkavian unique, yet all 
bound by their commonality of delusions. Not a single Malkavian 
can be predicted, and they can bitterly rile against one another 
as much as our own riotous neonates, yet they still see further 
and more clearly than our most potent Thaumaturgy permits. 
Perhaps our clan’s direction lies somewhere like them — unified 
but diverse, each unique yet sharing a common bond. Without 
the lunacy, of course.”
Nosferatu
“Do not discount the sewer dwellers. Each is a skilled survi-
vor; they must be, to overcome the disadvantages of their hideous 
countenances. They know many secrets — a pity that they demand 
ours as well. A little caution is in order, but the Nosferatu can 
make excellent allies. They know too much to ever trust us, of 
course, but that’s to be expected. And remember — the informants 
are always the first ones who must die when war breaks out.”
Toreador
“Dilettantes driven to distraction! The Toreador would be 
laughable if they did not wield so much clout. The combination of 
their mortal ties and their Camarilla influence makes the clan as 
a whole formidable, but individuals are easily placated into docil-
ity. Their transitory lusts make them perfect pawns; give them 
something of no consequence, then use their extensive networks 
while they shine the bauble.”
Ventrue
“In a strange way, the Ventrue are much like brothers-in-
arms. While the Ventrue epitomize the lords who lead the Camarilla 
to its next night, we stand as their careful advisors and sages. A 
Ventrue will happily take on the burden of leadership and become a 
target, just to fulfill his ‘responsibility.’ In the meantime, we offer 
advice and support, reap the rewards of the Ventrue’s position and 
remain unscathed by the weight of their destiny.”
Caitiff
“An utter abomination — any sire who would be so crass as 
to improperly educate a childe should be treated harshly. Caitiff 
themselves endanger the Masquerade with their ignorance, threaten 
society with their penchant for diablerie and make for an unknown 
quantity in an otherwise stable equation. Of course, they’re eager 
for acceptance, so say a few kind words and use them, but wipe 
your hands when you’re done.”
Assamites
“Perhaps our most troubling adversaries. We had them 
defeated, yet they have returned from exile more powerful than 
before. Step warily; their long memories and longer knives still 
hunger for our blood to repay the curse we placed upon their clan. 
It seems that their clan holds more depth than we once thought. 
When we bring them to heel, we shall discover the secrets they’ve 
kept from us.”
Gangrel
“Old wives’ tales say that animals raise their hackles around 
witchcraft. Certainly the Gangrel have no love for us; best, perhaps, 
that they went their separate way. We remember all too keenly their 
fights against us in the thick forests during the early nights of the 
clan. They’ve no appreciation for intellectual pursuits or civilization. 
These wild men are as obsolete as the peasant legends they spawned.”
Ravnos
“Fools, tricksters and worthless trash, to the last. A Ravnos 
is only worth more than a Caitiff because he at least has the sense 
to know when he’s doing something wrong. Let them play their 
little games, but if one tries to fool you, crush him utterly and 
make an example of him.”
Giovanni
“Their limited insight cannot compare to our diverse talents. 
Inbred and inward-looking, they may have tapped into ghosts, but 
they do so only through debauched excess, not through any true 
understanding of universal principles. Ignore them.”
Setites
“The comparison of Setites to snakes remains an apt one; one 
must be as careful with a Setite as a mortal handling a poisonous 
snake. Although they seem languorous and contented, they will 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
45
bite without warning. A Setite may offer choice treasures, but in 
the end the price is more than expected. Turn the tables — take 
what they offer, then let their own morally bankrupt natures 
betray themselves.”
Other Things in the 
Darkness
Diligent study into occultism means that the Tremere 
have more information about other supernatural creatures 
than most Kindred. This is still a limited resource, but at 
least the Tremere have some idea of what’s going on outside 
the world of the undead. Or they like to think they do.…
Lupines
“The werewolves are dangerous in the extreme, as we learned 
in our struggles in the lands beyond the forest. Do not rely on 
Disciplines to save you — avoid them, flee if you can, sacrifice 
an apprentice or a servant to slow them down. They will counter 
our Thaumaturgy with tricks of their own, and even a raging 
Brujah cannot stand up to them physically. Fortunately they are 
rare in the cities. If you must deal with Lupines, employ some 
other Kindred to do it on your behalf.”
Mages
“We were once mages, it is said. Where have they gone? 
The wizards of ancient days have not survived, or at least not like 
us. The price of immortality may be steep, but the alternative, it 
seems, was extinction.”
No Paths of Enlightenment? 
No Bloodlines?
Even though the Tremere aren’t as rigid as some 
would believe, they have only limited tolerance for 
deviance. Small peccadilloes like dealings with indepen-
dent clans or anarch status can be accepted. Full-scale 
ideological or supernatural divergence cannot.
Some few Kindred expect Tremere to adhere to 
a Path of Enlightenment centered around their clan’s 
code. While some neonates are quite zealous in their 
prosecution of the clan’s goals, few would actually rebuild 
their entire ideological psychology around the Tremere 
Code. Indeed, the code serves as a practical guideline, 
not as a moral document. One can presumably obey 
the Tremere clan and still slide into the clutches of 
the Beast — as many of the clan’s elders have observed 
over the years.
Similarly, the Tremere experimented with blood-
lines in their early nights. Gargoyles remain a (rare) 
successful variant, but they’re the only ones. The Tely-
avelic Tremere of the Dark Ages produced too much 
of a stir, and the Tremere antitribu were of course an 
abominable aberration. Given such failures, the Tremere 
have no interest in encouraging further deviant lineages.


Clanbook: Tremere
46
Ghosts
“The spirits of the dead have little truck with us. We create 
enough ghosts with our schemes; there’s no need to draw down 
their ire. Of course, their impotent rage in the nether realms means 
little. They’re noteworthy only as pawns of the Giovanni.”
Faeries
“The code prohibits contact with faeries. An archaic notion, 
considering that even our elders consider faeries nothing more than 
stories from the Dark Ages of Europe.”
Hunters
“Have a care with the Masquerade, or you risk earning the 
attention of the living. Some, it seems, have the very wrath of God 
on their side. Are they mages of this age? Or are they the Creator’s 
vengeance, manifested to destroy those He cursed so long ago? 
Are they just crazy people with baseball bats and delusions? They 
die like anyone else when their blood boils away.”
New Traits and 
Powers
No discussion of the Tremere would be complete, of 
course, without a nod to their unique capabilities. Thauma-
turgy itself is flexible and potent, a mirror of  the individual 
Tremere. It’s not the only tool at the clan’s disposal, though. 
Here are some additional systems for other boons — or 
problems — often unique to the Tremere.
Tremere Disciplines
Many Kindred assume that Thaumaturgy is the be-all 
end-all of Tremere study. They assume that Tremere practice 
Thaumaturgy to the exclusion of other Disciplines, that no 
Tremere can ever advance in power without thaumaturgical 
proficiency, and that the other Disciplines of Auspex and 
Dominate are poor cousins to blood magic.
Of course, any Tremere worth her vitae recognizes this 
as untrue. Disciplines give innate power, power that cannot 
be easily taken away. Any tool is useful so long as it’s used 
for the proper problem, and it behooves the Tremere to 
have all the right tools for the problems they’ll face. Would 
a sly politico benefit more from Dominate or Thaumaturgy? 
Would an archaeologist find more use for Auspex or alchemy? 
Tremere study where they find the most gains in advantage.
Furthermore, Tremere face the problems of will and 
vitae. Thaumaturgy proves difficult and demanding. An 
unfortunate practitioner may erode his mind, and the magic 
exacts a price in blood. Why use it when other tools may be 
more efficient and cost-effective?
Each Discipline in its place — that means all of them 
have use. A skilled Tremere respects the flexibility of Thau-
maturgy, but also recognizes the applications of Auspex and 
Dominate. The combination of all three Disciplines gives 
the wielder fearsome knowledge and flexible options. Better 
still, all three Disciplines rely upon mental fortitude, which 
most Tremere have in excess. Tremere Kindred can thus focus 
with mental acuity to hone all of their supernatural skills. A 
Tremere needn’t worry so much about difficulties with physi-
cal skill or lack of graceful social interaction; his Disciplines 
function perfectly well without requiring diverse aptitudes.
Auspex
As a cabal of wizards, it’s no surprise that Tremere have 
superlative awareness. Some would attribute this to magical 
heritage, while others speculate that the Tremere developed 
such skills due to their specific origins. Regardless, Auspex 
remains a staple of Tremere study; many Kindred rely on 
Tremere for investigative skill, because of the combination of 
arcane knowledge, magical tools and the mystical sensitivity 
of Auspex.
Magical Research: A Tremere capable of seeing auras 
can tell when the forces of magic are in use, so it’s possible 
to spot sorcerers (potential threats or recruits), some magical 
artifacts or rites that have been activated. This doesn’t neces-
sarily imply knowledge of what’s going on, but the Tremere 
can easily determine whether a given event stems from magic 
or not. With greater aptitude, a Tremere can read psychic 
impressions from objects, which can sometimes clue her in 
to their functions or histories. A Tremere might be able to 
discern an enchantment on an otherwise mundane object by 
watching it in use or even vicariously experiencing the last 
time it was used, such as reading the psychic impressions left 
on a stone tablet with but a touch.
Political Agendas: Besides the usual reading of secrets 
through telepathy or separating truth from falsehood by 
perusing auras, clever Tremere can find a host of uses for 
Auspex in politics. Given access to personal possessions, the 
opportunities for blackmail are staggering — learn the details 
of some naughty indiscretion from a piece of clothing, and 
you’ve got a mayor in your debt. Even the acute sensitivity 
of very basic Auspex can be useful; a Tremere skilled in read-
ing body language may well determine some unspoken guilt 
by carefully watching the twitching of a subject’s features 
or sensing telltale smells (cordite? perfume? gin?). And, of 
course, astral projection (for the true masters) has all manner 
of uses — holistically spying on meetings, following suspicious 
characters, dropping in unexpectedly to send a telepathic 
missive to a minion, even penetrating heavy security.
Security: Heightened awareness naturally runs counter to 
stealth and espionage. Studious Tremere can excel at picking 
out hidden spies and their accoutrements. A little augmented 
hearing may note a subtle ping that indicates a tap on a phone 
line, while some psychic impressions could tell if a spy has 
placed surveillance devices in an area or eavesdropped in a 
room. Sensitive Tremere can also spot other Kindred who rely 
too heavily on the Obfuscate Discipline; this is one reason 
that Nosferatu rarely have extensive information about the 
inner workings of Tremere clan meetings or chantries.


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
47
Optional System: Thaumaturgical Sight (Auspex ••, Thaumaturgy •)
Storytellers: Use this system at your own discretion if 
you wish to distinguish between the vibrant magics of the 
living and the cold formulae of Tremere Thaumaturgy and 
other Kindred sorcery.
Just as some Kindred can sense the auras that surround 
living or undead beings, some acutely sensitive Tremere 
develop the talent to recognize thaumaturgical patterns. 
Magical energies cast by others are visible with Aura Per-
ception, but with Thaumaturgical Sight, a Tremere can 
see the unholy vigor of blood magic. With enough occult 
knowledge, the Tremere may be able to decipher the lines 
of power to figure out exactly what sort of magic she faces.
A Tremere using Thaumaturgical Sight sees blood 
magic’s power as pulsing, viscous curves of liquid scarlet, 
which differ from the sparkles that punctuate the aura of a 
person using a living, dynamic magic. As the magic turns 
vitae into a fuel for a twisted manifestation of undeath’s 
curse, the viewer sees connections between thaumaturgical 
components and the resulting enchantment. A thaumaturge 
who uses the Lure of Flames, for instance, might appear to 
have crimson traceries weaving in his hands and coalesc-
ing until they burst into flames, while an enchanted knife 
might seem to have an unwholesome, sanguine glisten to it.
Like similar Auspex Disciplines, Thaumaturgical Sight 
isn’t a power that’s used constantly or casually. Some magical 
wards — especially koldunic ones — can threaten a Tremere’s 
sanity when they’re viewed with this sight. Certain places 
in Eastern Europe, it’s said, roil with diseased power that 
burns out all vision from a Tremere who would look upon 
their naked states. Wise Tremere confine their Thauma-
turgical Sight to places or items where they’re certain of 
blood influence but need a clearer vision of the specifics.
System: Activating Thaumaturgical Sight is just like 
the use of Aura Perception. In fact, it augments that power; 
those without Thaumaturgical Sight will miss the subtle 
nuances of dead magic, while those who possess this power 
will find their Aura Perception abilities enhanced by it. 
However, as with any use of Thaumaturgy, a botch on the 
activation roll costs one permanent Willpower.
While under the effects of Thaumaturgical Sight, the 
character may be able to puzzle out other manifestations 
of blood magic within her line of sight. A Perception + 
Occult roll (difficulty 8) is appropriate to determine the 
character’s success in making out the results of some form 
of blood magic. If it’s an effect with which the character 
is familiar — such as someone invoking Theft of Vitae, 
if the character knows that power — then one success is 
sufficient to recognize the power. Otherwise, the successes 
scored determine the gist of the character’s understanding: 
With one success, she might puzzle out the general idea of 
an effect, like whether it’s geared to combat or divination; 
with three or more successes, she can probably figure out 
exactly what it’s supposed to do.
Thaumaturgical Sight does notice the patterns of power 
inherent to enchanted artifacts or wards, so long as they’re 
products of blood magic. A Tremere can therefore spot a 
ward and determine who it’s designed to deter, or notice 
that an object has some sort of blood magic upon it, such 
as Engaging the Vessel of Transference. Rituals show up to 
this sight, both during casting and while their effects remain, 
so a Tremere could tell if someone has invoked a ritual like 
Deflection of Wooden Doom or Steps of the Terrified. 
Most importantly, Thaumaturgical Sight allows the 
user to spot all forms of vampiric blood magic; Thauma-
turgy, Setite or Assamite magic and koldunic sorcery are 
all equally visible. Conversely, Thaumaturgical Sight does 
not recognize “normal” magical effects, like the enchant-
ments that mortal wizards use (though Aura Perception 
still reveals such magic as sparkling, coruscating energy). In 
any event, Aura Perception is required to learn this power, 
so the distinction is only parenthetical, if noteworthy.
It costs six experience points to learn this power.
MET System: Requires Basic Auspex, Basic 
Thaumaturgy and three Experience Traits. By invoking 
Thaumaturgical Sight, you become capable of noticing the 
use of any blood magic — Thaumaturgy, koldunic sorcery, 
Assamite or Setite sorcery, or more specialized forms such 
as rituals. You can call out this sight at any time (subject to 
being conscious, able to spend blood and so on), and you 
immediately notice all rituals in use, all blood magic in 
the process of casting or currently in effect and all objects 
enchanted with blood magic.
If you wish to determine the specifics of an effect, you 
must make a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of 
eight Traits and using the Occult Ability for retests. If you 
succeed, the subject must reveal to you the name of the power 
invoked. If it’s a power that you possess, you are assumed to 
know how it works, and you can also determine the target. 
Otherwise, the subject need only reveal the name of the 
power in question. You can only scrutinize one power in this 
fashion each turn, so even if you spot several thaumaturgical 
effects in action, you can only concentrate on one of them 
at a time. This level of concentration requires your normal 
action and cannot be sped up with Celerity or similar powers.
Should you desire to keep your Thaumaturgical Sight ac-
tive for longer than one turn, you can spend Mental Traits 
to extend the duration of the power. Spend one Mental Trait 
at the beginning of each turn in which you wish to keep the 
power active. If you allow the power to lapse, you must spend 
a Blood Trait to renew it later. If you are not in combat-based 
turns, the power lasts for one minute and can be maintained 
at a cost of one Mental Trait per minute thereafter.
You should indicate your Thaumaturgical Sight by 
placing your fingers, spread in a V, to the side of your eyes. 
Use of this power is not immediately noticeable to others, 
though people will notice your intense scrutiny.


Clanbook: Tremere
48
Intuition: Many Kindred overlook the hunches and pre-
cognitive insights that seem to develop with Auspex. Tremere, 
with their long familiarity with divination, make use of such 
talents. Occult schooling teaches Tremere to remain aware of 
sudden chills, spine-crawling fear, déjà vu and other curious 
mental states. Some Tremere even keep notes or journals of 
their unusual hunches, dreams or insights. Often, prophetic 
feelings can prove true or give early warning of danger.
Dominate
The majority of Tremere Kindred have a strong drive 
for power and accomplishment. Combine their natural 
assertiveness and will — a will strong enough to bend the 
very Curse of Caine to their whims, as evidenced through 
Thaumaturgy — and the Tremere’s proficiency with the 
Dominate Discipline becomes unsurprising. Experienced 
Tremere attribute the Dominate power to a hypnotic gaze, 
or assert that the Kindred gazes into the windows of the soul 
and moves the very will of God’s vengeance in through his 
own soulless body. More modern Tremere tend to connect 
Dominate to a natural assumption of authority combined 
with human fear of the undead’s predatory nature. Either 
way, the Kindred clearly exerts an unnatural command over 
her victims. “Let them hate, so long as they fear,” to quote 
one fiendish Roman emperor.
Many Kindred consider Dominate a blatant and crass 
Discipline. A skilled user can be quite subtle, though, and 
there’s no denying the direct effectiveness of the power. 
However, Dominate does lend itself to forcing people into 
situations that they would never otherwise consider, which 
can lead to complications ranging from a subject wondering 
about lost memories to concerned friends noticing how their 
companion has suddenly and radically changed his behavior. 
Dominate also can’t directly force someone to violate their 
inherent values, so it’s best used as an adjunct or emphasis 
on more common forms of manipulation.
Daylight Action: Most vampires who hope to act during 
the day must work through intermediaries. Tremere labor under 
similar restrictions, but Dominate helps to make the subjects 
more tractable and predictable. Instead of leaving instruc-
tions to a fallible and uncertain ally, some choose to impart 
subconscious suggestion. Give detailed instructions, perhaps, 
with a compulsion to obey. Or add in a little memory that 
surfaces during a daily routine and causes a subject to do what 
you want. Need him to drop off a letter for you? Just make him 
“remember” that he planned to mail the letter in his pocket, 
once he wakes up in the morning. And, of course, Possession is 
king; combine with the ritual Wake with Evening’s Freshness, 
and a Tremere can stay awake briefly during the day and move 
about outside, experience a little sunlight, even vicariously 
enjoy lost mortal passions like food and sex.
Influence Peddling: Although using Dominate on 
the mayor is a bit much (What happens if it fails? or if his 
memories come back as he’s addressing the GOP convention 
held in the city? or if a command is improperly executed?), 
the occasional use of the Discipline helps in cementing 
influence. A Kindred can use altered memories, implanting 
a memory of comradeship and cooperation that opens the 
door to further accommodation. She can just stress a small 
desire, so that the subject is more likely to do something 
he was inclined to do anyway — “You can forgive this one 
infraction, can’t you, officer?” More long-term applications 
of the Discipline are possible with even a modicum of skill, 
because once a patsy’s convinced to do something once, 
the compromise opens the door to further action. Push the 
alderman into taking a bribe, and he’ll rationalize accept-
ing later ones. Convince a janitor to be helpful, and he’ll 
remember you later as a confidant.
The Inevitable Jyhad: The use of physical Disciplines 
often incites reprisal. A Kindred who raises a Potence-backed 
fist against another of his kind quickly finds that other Kindred 
rally to crush the offender who would so blatantly become a 
threat. The powers of Dominate, used subtly, can be nearly 
unnoticeable and not quite so threatening. Attack another 
Kindred with Celerity, and the harpies will whisper about 
bad tempers and loutish behavior; direct another Kindred 
through careful Dominate, and gain the grudging approval 
of peers for a clever ploy, even if it’s discovered. Of course, 
other Kindred despise being the subject of such manipulation, 
but if they’re placed into a prestation debt or humiliated to 
the point of losing status, there’s not much that they can do 
about it, now is there?
Masquerade Clean-Up: No Discipline helps to repair 
small-scale Masquerade problems so efficiently as Dominate. 
As pillars of the Camarilla, Tremere Kindred can use their 
Dominate power to make witnesses forget or lie, to plant false 
evidence or to compel assistance in cover-ups. Combine with 
prestation, and the Tremere can quickly rack up boons from 
incautious Kindred, especially by threatening to “release” 
certain memories or evidence of an indiscretion in such a 
way that the prince or sheriff finds out.
Oberon’s Grail (Dominate Level Six)
Memory manipulation gives effective options for in-
fluence, protection of secrets or intimidation. Employed 
carefully, such methods can change motives and perform subtle 
alterations to a subject’s personality. Sometimes, though, a 
few subtle changes aren’t enough, and when entire nights of 
memory lead to trouble, a mere 15-minute alteration won’t 
do. Tremere elders may be beguiling schemers, but sometimes 
even they must resort to brute force. Recalcitrant  memories 
wiped away, whole evenings lost to mystery — rumor holds 
that some Tremere can do this and more. But who would 
ever remember?
Oberon’s Grail serves as a very final and dramatic cure to 
problem witnesses. The Forgetful Mind can only remove or 
alter small sections of memory at a time, but Oberon’s Grail 
has no such limitation. A single application can wash away an 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
49
entire night. The Tremere need only touch the subject while 
making eye contact (even light clothing will not stop this). 
Everything from sundown up to the point of the Tremere’s 
touch vanishes from the victim’s memory. With effort, the 
Tremere can even fog the victim’s mind so that he remembers 
nothing from the point of the touch to sunup, once the victim 
has slept. In effect, the victim seems to function normally 
(except, of course, for the loss of everything from sunset to 
the touch) until he wakes up the next day or night, at which 
point he realizes that he has no recollection whatsoever of 
the whole previous night.
Those elders who master Oberon’s Grail use it only rarely. 
The touch can’t remove expertise — someone who learns 
a skill cannot be made to forget how to do it — but it can 
make the victim unable to recall how or when he learned 
something, or to realize that he knows about it. Most often, 
the Grail helps to guard the Masquerade, protect clan secrets 
and punish those who would violate Kindred custom. Because 
the Grail’s effects are so profound and so obvious, it’s a good 
way to make enemies, and it’s thus rarely used, but it is perhaps 
more effective for its threat than its practice.
System: The Tremere must make eye contact, as usual 
for Dominate and touch the victim. (An elder who also has 
the power of Obedience can use Oberon’s Grail without eye 
contact.) The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge (dif-
ficulty equal to the victim’s Willpower). One success causes 
the victim’s memories from sunset to the point of the touch to 
become hazy; two successes completely wipe out all memory 
in that time period. With three or more successes, the Tremere 
can erase the entirety of the night, with everything from the 
touch until sunrise disappearing from memory once the victim 
falls asleep, but this costs a point of Willpower.
Oberon’s Grail has no effect if administered during the 
day (that’s day for the body making the touch — a Tremere 
cannot leave his body in some part of the world at night 
and use the Grail through a Possessed vessel in some other, 
daylit part of the world). Although Oberon’s Grail destroys 
memories, it cannot remove Attributes, Abilities, Disciplines 
or other Traits. This power works against victims with Eidetic 
Memory normally; against victims who do not sleep, its ability 
to suppress memory functions only on the period from sundown 
to the point of the touch, though the user will not be aware 
of this. A vampire who enters torpor counts as falling asleep.
MET System: Master Dominate. Administering Ober-
on’s Grail requires a Physical Challenge to grasp the victim, 
followed by a Mental Challenge to activate the Dominate 
power. If successful, the power wipes away all memory of the 
evening prior to the touch; naturally, this works best if used 
at the end of an evening. Additionally, the subject suffers 
the Negative Mental Traits Forgetful x 3 for the rest of the 
evening. Expenditure of a Willpower Trait enhances the 
power so that the victim remembers nothing of the evening 
after next falling asleep. Because this power relies upon the 
good roleplaying of the victim, a Storyteller should be alerted 
when this power is invoked. All of the limitations listed above 
still apply — no Traits can be removed with this power, nor 
can a victim be forced to lose experience.
Thaumaturgy
Naturally, the study of Thaumaturgy is the hallmark of 
the Tremere — their practice of its eldritch secrets veritably 
defines the clan, at least to outsiders. Although the Thauma-
turgy Discipline is certainly an enviable and flexible power, 
it does not necessarily dictate the Tremere’s internal politics, 
and any neonate who assumes that Thaumaturgy supersedes 
the need for common sense will not be long for unlife.
Still, dedicated study does produce results, and the 
Tremere’s centuries of practice have created skills that 
other clans have neither duplicated nor imagined. Secrecy, 
devotion of practice and a vicious tendency to hoard deadly 
mysteries all shield the Tremere’s most valuable assets from 
prying Kindred. Encryptions and assumptions hide formulae, 
and some Tremere even actively hunt and slay non-Tremere 
Kindred who study Thaumaturgy — a dangerous practice, 
indeed (see p. 34).
Due to the extreme flexibility of Thaumaturgy, just about 
anything is theoretically possible. Most neonates won’t be able 
to perform more than a few standard paths and rituals — not 
that such skill is anything to scoff at. Indeed, judicious study 
of Thaumaturgy can have many benefits.
Investigation: The most rudimentary powers of the Path 
of Blood allow for phenomenal precision in tracking Kindred 
lineages. Tremere can easily establish the “credentials” of 
questionable visitors to the city; more than one prince has 
summarily executed an enemy of the Tremere simply based 
upon the say-so of a thaumaturge (“He’s a lying diablerist… 
kill him!”). The power to steal or transmute blood also gives 
Tremere an edge in gathering the materials necessary for 
such evidence.
Versatile Defense: Chances are, any group of Tremere 
includes members who know different forms of Thaumaturgy 
and varied rituals. By combining skills, Tremere can enact a 
variety of minor miracles with frightening efficiency. Tremere 
who know similar rituals can extend their proficiency simply 
by working in tandem: three Tremere with Defense of Sacred 
Haven can shield several rooms in an hour. A group of Tremere 
with varied rituals like Flesh of Fiery Touch and Deflection 
of Wooden Doom can cast phenomenal layers of protection 
over one individual (a bodyguard or representative, perhaps).
Prestation: The powers of Thaumaturgy aren’t easily 
countered or duplicated. Better still, rituals allow for long-
lasting effects or objects that can be used by others. Kindred 
hungry for any advantage may barter boons, services and 
status for the merest thaumaturgical trinket. Stories relate 
that some Tremere may even teach the rudiments of Thau-
maturgy to their allies, for the price of a Blood Contract. 
Bones of Lies, Deflections of Wooden Doom and similar 


Clanbook: Tremere
50
useful applications can all be had for the right price — and 
often, the first one’s free.
All of the Thaumaturgy paths and rituals printed here-
after use the basic thaumaturgical systems as presented on 
pages 178 and 182-183 of Vampire: The Masquerade. Some 
of these powers have been updated from previous editions 
of Vampire supplements. For more detailed information 
regarding the principles of Thaumaturgy, see Blood Magic: 
Secrets of Thaumaturgy.
Teaching and Learning Thaumaturgy
As befits a carefully honed secret handed down 
through centuries of clan study, Thaumaturgy ranks as one 
of the rarest and most scientific Disciplines. The Tremere 
limit the spread of Thaumaturgy for many reasons: because 
Thaumaturgy gives their clan a definite advantage; because 
Thaumaturgy’s flexibility allows the Tremere to foil many 
other Disciplines; because other Kindred might not have 
the strength of will to use Thaumaturgy properly; because 
some secrets, if they were to surface, would lead to wholesale 
hunting of the Tremere clan.
Neonate Tremere often find a peculiar affinity for 
Thaumaturgy. Some develop proficiency with blood magic 
of their own accord, without extensive training, but this 
rarely extends beyond the rudiments of the craft. Rituals 
and alternative paths especially require study. Among other 
Kindred, Thaumaturgy is a terribly difficult craft to master — 
the vampire must not only memorize and flawlessly execute 
centuries’ worth of mystic study, but must turn the very 
Curse around to become a personal tool. Even among those 
with the occult acumen to learn Thaumaturgy, instructors 
are rare indeed. After all, if a Tremere vampire can count 
Thaumaturgy as a personal advantage over other Kindred, 
there’s no reason to teach its secrets; if another Kindred 
manages to master Thaumaturgy alone, he similarly has no 
reason to divulge those skills.
The Vampire: The Masquerade rulebook notes that 
the study of Thaumaturgy may take upward of 10 years of 
blood-bending rituals (see the Inherited Affinity ritual, 
below). For Tremere Kindred, it’s often appropriate to allow 
one or two dots of the Path of Blood, simply as an intuitive 
practice. Other characters shouldn’t have Thaumaturgy 
without an exceptional explanation from the player. Indeed, 
the Storyteller should always feel within his rights to deny 
Thaumaturgy to non-Tremere characters; some Kindred 
simply can’t master its intricacies without centuries of work 
to overcome their ingrained habits or lack of natural talent. 
In any case, a non-Tremere Kindred who desires to learn 
Thaumaturgy probably needs at least an Occult rating of 4, 
an instructor who’s already mastered Thaumaturgy and a lot 
of painful experimentation. Developing Thaumaturgy from 
books and tomes may be possible, but remember that such 
a feat took the better part of a century for an entire cabal 
of low-generation, century-old wizards who had already 
practiced the craft for decades while they were alive when 
the Tremere first became undead. Such a feat isn’t likely for a 
lone individual without extraordinary talent and dedication.
Thaumaturgy Paths
Understanding the mystic principles of the vitae that 
animates their undead bodies allows the Tremere to ma-
nipulate blood in startling ways with Thaumaturgy. Even the 
phenomenal cursed power of Disciplines has limits, of course, 
and Thaumaturgy pays for its flexibility with its narrowly 
specialized paths. Each path grants power over one limited 
area of mysticism. New paths can be made to expand these 
limits. Conversely, though, developing a new path requires 
extreme dedication and extensive knowledge, so most thau-
maturges must content themselves with the few paths that 
their tutors grudgingly or sparingly disseminate. Probably any 
thaumaturge who devises her own path has little desire to 
make its secrets and advantages widely known — why give 
away what one has striven to perfect?
Within the Tremere clan, many paths have grown from 
half-formed ideas put forth by those unable to fully develop 
them or faded into obscurity. Thaumaturgy’s price in both 
vitae and focus can take a huge toll, so even a broadly useful 
path (like the Path of Blood) often proves less effective than 
more common Disciplines. For this reason, even though the 
permutations of Thaumaturgy remain theoretically infinite, 
many attempts at paths simply don’t have enough utility, or 
prove too costly, to be worth the resources and risk. Others 
that are quite effective may well remain hoarded by their 
creators and so see almost no widespread use.
Failed and Lost Paths
For those Storytellers with a cruel or detail-oriented view 
of the World of Darkness, some failed or antiquated paths 
may provide a horrific or literary aside to a story involving 
Tremere. Perhaps a Tremere character wants to devise a 
path of his own, and discovers that someone already tried 
a similar idea but with dismal results. Maybe the Tremere 
have a new path that’s quite powerful, but also extremely 
debilitating, and they’re reluctant to use it without finding 
a way to improve it. A path could simply fall out of general 
favor and use due to obsolescence — why bother with a path 
to increase movement speeds in an age with automobiles 
and jet aircraft? Any one of these can be a unique curiosity 
for occult-oriented characters. A character might collect 
anachronistic or “lost” knowledge, or be determined to 
finish building a path that only had its first or second level 
completed. Lost paths can also give insight into their creators 
(“Why did my mentor spend two months in 1780 trying to 
build a path that exerted control over insects?”), or have 
highly specialized applications that simply aren’t useful in 
the current situation but reflect historical events (“Well, 
this path certainly improves defensive capabilities, but only 
in castles at least two acres in size.”). Remember, a path 
needn’t be a finished or all-powerful product; just because 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
51
Thaumaturgy’s flexible doesn’t mean that it’s infallible. More 
failed paths probably exist than finished ones, and a string 
of failed paths could even be an albatross around a hapless 
Tremere’s neck. Conversely, turning an old failed path into a 
successful new form (like the Path of the Levinbolt, below) 
can garner great clan prestige.
Path of the Levinbolt
Medieval Tremere experimented with harnessing light-
ning itself, but their understanding proved only rudimentary. 
Without knowledge of electricity, thaumaturges could only 
rely on a simple ability to hold and discharge energy. Fur-
thermore, other paths like the Lure of Flames proved more 
useful in the struggle to establish the clan’s place. For these 
reasons, the Path of the Levinbolt faded to obscurity through 
the Dark and Middle Ages, and remained hidden away in 
grimoires until the Victorian Age.
The birth of science and understanding of electricity 
revitalized the Path of the Levinbolt — the combination 
of mystical astrology with a rational understanding allowed 
thaumaturges to rebuild and rechannel its principles. No 
longer did thaumaturges have only some limited skill in 
charging themselves with lightning; now they could arc, 
focus and handle the very elements! Older practitioners 
spent minutes collecting the energy necessary to charge this 
Path’s discharges, but modern thaumaturges could gather the 
electricity in mere seconds, to direct as they chose.
As a thaumaturge collects the energy of the Levinbolt, 
she often takes on an electrical aspect: sparks may play at 
her fingertips, or a purplish halo may seem to surround her 
hands as a warning of storms to come. Mighty discharges often 
result in a sort of flaring afterimage like a photo negative as 
the powerful lightning makes a stark contrast to surround-
ing darkness.
•Spark
Novice thaumaturges can build up a tiny static charge, 
enough to make a noticeable snap with a touch. Such a 
discharge poses little threat to healthy targets, though the 
energy can ruin delicate electronics or stun an unlucky victim.
System: The thaumaturge simply touches a target (after 
the requisite blood expenditure and Willpower roll by the 
player) and releases the spark. The electricity can snap from 
any part of the caster’s body, so a thaumaturge might give an 
unpleasant surprise to someone touching her. The resulting 
discharge inflicts two dice of electrical damage (generally 
lethal). The time required to draw out the electricity varies 
with the successes scored: with one success, the vampire 
might need a turn or three to accumulate the energy; with 
three successes, only a couple of seconds; with five successes, 
instantly. The caster must use the power immediately after 
invoking the magic.
MET System: You can make a single snapping discharge 
of static electricity by touch. Should you choose to use this 
power in conjunction with a touch (against a subject that 


Clanbook: Tremere
52
you attack, or someone who hits you, or just against some 
object touching you), simply snap your fingers — the subject 
takes one lethal level of damage and is stunned for the rest 
of the turn. 
•• Illuminate
Neonates sometimes derogatively refer to this effect as 
the “40-watt Tremere,” right up until they’ve felt its sting. 
The thaumaturge summons enough electricity to cover her 
hand or arm in arcing bolts. This power can charge a battery 
or briefly run a small device, or even leave a nasty burn on 
a touched subject.
System: Each success scored on the player’s Willpower 
roll translates to approximately one turn of power sufficient 
to run a handful of lights or a small electrical device. Al-
ternately, the thaumaturge can shock someone by touch, as 
with the Spark power, but for four dice of (lethal) electrical 
damage; such a use immediately discharges the energy. The 
current created with this power is not strong enough to 
force its way through less-than-ideal conductors, though, 
and simply inflicts electrical damage on raw metals, woods 
or other matter in the form of a burn. The thaumaturge can 
alternately allow the electricity to spark about her hand, 
eyes, head or the like; this creates illumination about equal 
to a dim light bulb, and obviously give a two-point bonus to 
Intimidation rolls against unassuming victims (like mortals). 
In conjunction with a Dexterity + Crafts roll (difficulty 7), 
the thaumaturge could even use his fingers to perform crude 
metal welding, though this can easily heat metal enough to 
inflict aggravated damage to the caster.…
MET System: You can shock with a touch, as with the 
Spark power, which causes two levels of lethal damage and 
leaves the target stunned for the rest of the turn; alternately, 
you can generate light or power for one turn for each point 
of permanent Willpower that you possess. If you choose to 
generate electrical light, you also gain one bonus Social Trait 
for intimidation. You can also weld a single broken item of 
metal together (such as a broken sword or a ruined car door) 
with about a minute of work, though you suffer a level of 
aggravated damage in the process.
•••Power Array
Like a looming thundercloud, the thaumaturge holds the 
waiting fury of lightning. Although the vampire cannot create 
or direct a charge strongly or accurately enough to launch 
actual bolts of electricity, she can conduct power through 
other substances or even absorb nearby energies.
System: As with lesser levels of this path, the thaumaturge 
can discharge a shock of electricity, this time up to six dice 
of lethal damage; the charge remains active for a number of 
turns equal to the number of successes scored by the player 
on the initial roll. With this power, the thaumaturge can also 
send the power through any conductive substance touched; 
a metal sword (with a similarly metal handle) could carry 
the thaumaturge’s electric touch — the bolts of lightning 
would literally snap across the blade into the target touched. 
The thaumaturge could also briefly power a large device or 
continue to power a small device for the duration of the ef-
fect. Though perhaps an ignominious use, a sorcerer could 
conceivably find himself needing just a minute to look into 
an unpowered computer’s files, to override an electrical 
lock or to start a dead car battery. Other power sources offer 
alternatives: the thaumaturge can choose to channel other 
electrical energies through herself if desired, which lets her 
draw power out of a car battery or power line without injury 
and without counting against her own power generation. By 
touching both power source and subject, the thaumaturge can 
act as a near-perfect conductor without any harm to herself.
MET System: Your shocking strikes (up to three) can 
score three levels of damage and stun your target, as a more 
powerful version of Spark, and can strike anyone who physi-
cally touches you, so you can give a nasty surprise to a group 
of attackers. You can also create power for moderately large 
devices or conduct power between sources. You can choose 
to add your damage to a metal object that you hold — if you 
strike someone with a metal crowbar, for instance, you get 
the usual damage and add the effects of Power Array as well. 
By holding a power source (like an electrical line), you can 
conduct electricity into anything you touch, with effects at the 
Storyteller’s discretion (generally, such power lets you score 
an additional level of lethal damage on anyone you touch, 
not cumulative with this power’s other effects, or continue to 
supply power without draining yourself). The power remains 
for a number of turns equal to your permanent Willpower 
Traits, or until used up.
•••• Zeus’ Fury
Accomplished thaumaturges can not only absorb electrical 
power, but shape and redirect it. The vampire may arc lightning 
from her body to nearby targets or hold a potent charge that 
raises hair on end and sparks with suppressed energy.
System: The successes scored by the player determine 
the number of turns that the vampire can harness Zeus’ Fury. 
The character holds a total of 10 dice of electrical power, 
which can be discharged through touch or in arced bolts in 
any combination desired — so the player could choose to 
spend four dice of damage in a touch attack, and then arc 
the remaining six dice into a bolt of lightning the next turn. 
As with lesser levels of power, a touch can fuel or overload 
electrical devices. The thaumaturge directs hurled bolts with 
Perception + Science (difficulty of 6 plus the range in yards — 
up to a maximum of 10, at the maximum range of four yards).
MET System: Not only can you channel power for three 
levels of damage and stun, but you can fire bolts of electrical 
energy with similar characteristics — up to three such bolts, 
one per turn. You direct bolts by pitting your Mental Traits 
against your enemy’s Physical Traits, discounting metal armor 
and using Science for retests. The power lasts for a number of 
turns equal to your permanent Willpower Traits, or until used up.


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
53
••••• Eye of the Storm
The thaumaturge becomes a shifting, sparking pillar of 
electrical power. Her merest glance can prove dangerous, her 
touch explosively fatal. The energy channeled in the Eye 
of the Storm can tear apart a mortal body or spectacularly 
detonate all but the most heavily shielded electrical compo-
nents. Wood, metal, plastic and similar materials combust 
dramatically with contact, burn or even sublimate.
System: At this level of mastery, the vampire can dis-
charge 14 dice of damage by touch, or launch lesser bolts 
of electricity as with Zeus’ Fury, above. Materials or entities 
that come in contact with the thaumaturge automatically 
suffer one die of lethal electrical damage each turn (this does 
not count against the usual dice pool, and adds to touch 
damage). The sparking, glowing form of the thaumaturge 
becomes a veritable halo of energy, and onlookers suffer 
from the excessively bright light and flashing afterimages 
(which can increase the difficulty of most tasks simply due 
to the distraction). The nimbus discharges at a rate of one 
die per turn unless otherwise spent, or unless a number of 
turns elapse equal to the successes scored by the player on 
the initial roll.
MET System: While you channel the Eye of the Storm, 
you are a dervish of shimmering electrical energy that seems to 
set the very air alight. Anyone looking at you suffers from the 
Negative Mental Trait Oblivious due to the glare, and people 
using Heightened Senses certainly have their sight overloaded 
and blinded. You can snap electrical charges into targets for 
four levels of lethal damage and stun them, using up to three 
such attacks total. The power lasts for a number of turns 
equal to your permanent Willpower Traits, or until used up.
The Path of Shadowcrafting
Although the Tremere have long been enemies of the 
Tzimisce, a chantry of 17th-century Portuguese Tremere once 
turned their talents to specialized means of combating the 
treacherous Lasombra of neighboring Spain. In the modern 
nights, however, Tzimisce-Lasombra ties in the Sabbat mean 
that the Tremere must sometimes bring their attentions to the 
depredations of the lords of shadow. Indeed, some Tremere 
wryly comment that for every sorcerous Tzimisce counselor 
who advises a Lasombra bishop, a cunning Tremere counsels 
an insidious Ventrue. With the Camarilla’s recent upturn in 
clashes with the Sabbat, the Tremere have needed a means to 
blunt the Sabbat’s edges. The unearthed Path of Shadowcraft-
ing offers one such opportunity, albeit in a scope that never 
became widespread due to its limited utility.
Students of the Path of Shadowcrafting learn to manipu-
late shades, but not in the same fashion as the Lasbombra. 
While Shadowcrafting tugs at the absence of light, Tremere 
who have fought the Lasombra firsthand come away with the 
distinct impression that Obtenebration manipulates some-
thing else — a tangible darkness, a sort of abyssal nothingness 
coaxed into the material world. What this bodes, even the 
Tremere do not know, and the few Lasombra antitribu certainly 
aren’t forthcoming. In the meantime, the Tremere hope to 
refine the path into a means of controlling or duplicating the 
Lasombra’s power, while keeping their failures quietly away 
from influential Camarilla ears. As is, the path is relatively 
weak, but those exploring it hope to make breakthroughs 
any night now.…
This path does not function for Kindred with the Flaw: 
Cast No Reflection.
• Out Light
The first rule of shade: darkness overcomes all light. 
Eventually, every light gutters and fades. A neophyte thau-
maturge can exert this property of darkness, bringing a sordid 
mortality to lights nearby. The lights may flicker and dim or 
even snuff completely, depending upon their strength and 
the thaumaturge’s will.
System: The thaumaturge can focus darkness upon any 
one light source within her range of sight. Only lights up to 
the strength of a torch, light bulb or modern neon sign can 
be affected, but complete success snuffs a light permanently 
(light bulbs and neon signs burn out; candles go out, but 
could be re-lit later). Successes scored on the casting roll 
determine the strength of the fading.
Successes	
Effect
1	
Momentary flicker
2	
Pronounced guttering for several seconds
3	
Source produces only dim flickers of erratic light 
for two turns
4	
Light source blacks out completely for two turns, 
then resumes
5+	
Totally extinguished
MET System: Spend one Blood Trait and make a Simple 
Test. If you win, a small light source that you can see sud-
denly goes out. If you tie, it flickers and gutters noticeably for 
several seconds. If you lose, there is no effect. You can only 
affect a light source that could easily be held in one hand and 
that does not put out more light than a good flashlight — a 
candle, lantern, flashlight or bulb could be extinguished, but 
a camera flash, spotlight or a halogen lamp could not be. If 
the light source was a flame and you manage to put it out, 
you also douse the flame.
•• Shadow Taunt
A wholly unnerving power, Shadow Taunt allows a 
thaumaturge to take command of a distant shadow. By sym-
pathetically linking it to his body, the thaumaturge makes 
the distant shadow obey his own shadow’s motion. The caster 
can jape, threaten or move about and cause the faraway 
shadow to behave in similar fashion. If the shadow belongs 
to a person, it follows the thaumaturge’s actions. Shadows 
of other than anthropomorphic shape contort as best they 
can, stretching, elongating and moving in a semblance of 
the caster’s motion. A shadow controlled in this fashion 
cannot actually do harm, nor does it harm its source, but 


Clanbook: Tremere
54
it certainly proves unnerving. On at least one occasion, a 
Tremere novice managed to humiliate an opponent simply 
by making the Kindred’s shadow subtly berate him; when 
the aggrieved Kindred brought the matter to the attention 
of the harpies, he found himself roundly scathed — “Afraid 
of your own shadow now?”
System: Successes scored on the Willpower roll for this 
effect determine how many turns the caster can control a 
distant shadow. Only one shadow at a time may be so in-
fluenced. Shadows animated in this fashion can move and 
even pantomime as they follow the thaumaturge’s actions, 
but they cannot make sound, nor do they actually break away 
from their casting source (so, if the thaumaturge leaves, the 
shadow moves as if running in place). The caster must be able 
to see the shadow that he wishes to manipulate, and it must 
be a natural shadow, not one created with Obtenebration.
MET System: You need only indicate a distant shadow 
and spend the usual time and Blood Trait to invoke this power 
of Thaumaturgy. Once you’ve invoked Shadow Taunt, you can 
completely control the actions of a shadow that you can see 
for so long as you concentrate on it. You should either indicate 
its pantomimes to the subject casting it, or inform a Narrator 
who can relay the shadow’s unusual actions. If nothing else, 
this can serve as an unusual distraction. As above, this power 
has no effect upon Obtenebration.
••• Coruscating Shadow
How would shadow appear if it hovered in the air? a 
discoloration? a dimness in the atmosphere? a hole in space? 
A commanding Tremere can peel the very shade from sur-
rounding surfaces and bend it into floating forms that whip 
about. These airborne shadows conceal the caster and create 
a roiling sphere of confusion. The unnatural display manifests 
as an ephemeral globe that encompasses the caster at about 
arm’s length, though it contracts and expands rapidly while 
the shadows flit about its surface.
System: Under the effects of Coruscating Shadow, the 
Tremere gains partial concealment due to the rapidly strob-
ing passage of shadowy shapes. The ball of shadows that 
surrounds the caster has no physical substance but expands 
and contracts, writhes and spins and generally makes mat-
ters difficult for anyone trying to observe the thaumaturge. 
Raise the difficulty of actions that affect the caster, including 
attacks, by one while this power is in effect. Furthermore, 
the heavier prevalence of shadow helps when blending into 
darkened areas, giving the player a two-die bonus to Stealth 
rolls for the character. The sphere lasts for one turn per suc-
cess garnered on the roll.
MET System: Indicate Coruscating Shadow by cross-
ing your arms at neck level, palms out with your fingers 
spread. Any onlooker can note the plainly unusual sight. 
You gain one bonus Trait to resolution in all challenges of 
stealth and when defending against any physical attack. 
The sphere lasts for one turn for every Trait of permanent 
Willpower that you have.


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
55
••••Night’s Veil
Shadows seem to devour the landscape hungrily as night 
falls. Where any shadow lies, the power of night remains — 
through that sympathetic power the Tremere can invoke the 
strength of night in any place. Mortals who have observed 
this bizarre power have left the experience “touched,” talking 
of shadows impossible in the current light and non-Euclidian 
geometries casting horrid shades.
System: Like other Shadowcrafting powers, the Tremere 
must extend existing shadows. Typically, the caster stands 
within a shadowed corner and invokes this power. In each 
successive turn, the shadow slowly expands to cover greater 
ground. Such mystically enhanced shade can even reach out 
into sunlit stretches. The shade extends about a yard beyond 
its normal distance for each success scored on the roll. For 
the rest of the scene, the shade counts as an area under the 
province of night: the Tremere can act normally without 
hindrance from daytime and avoid the sun’s rays. Should 
the caster step outside the shadow (whether accidentally or 
purposefully), though, the effect ends immediately — quite 
possibly stranding the Tremere, dizzy and disoriented, in 
burning sunlight.
MET System: By casting Night’s Veil, you can cause an 
area of shadow to expand beyond what would be its natural 
length. The pre-existing shadow is considered to extend an 
additional yard in each direction. So long as you remain within 
this shadow, the area counts as being under the influence of 
night. This lasts for the rest of the scene or an hour.
••••• Abyssal Pact
Mastery of the Path of Shadowcrafting allows a Tremere 
to imbue his shades with some semblance of substance. At this 
level of expertise, the path truly takes on some characteristics 
of tangible nightmares. While smothered in darkness, the 
Tremere lets loose something that seems hungry and malevo-
lent. Mastery of such shade creations also gives the Tremere 
a small chance to counter the Obtenebration Discipline, 
though such hope perhaps leads more to overconfidence 
than to conquest.
The creator of the Shadowcrafting path, now a chat-
tering invalid, maintains during brief moments of lucidity 
that strange shadow entities wait in every darkened corner. 
Certainly the shades conjured by this path give some credence 
to such notions, but the Kindred in question asserts that these 
beings devour light and feed upon the very essences of those 
who would dare truck with them. If these are, perhaps, the 
primal fiends that deal with the Lasbombra’s fluid darkness, 
then perhaps their secrets are best left hidden — their un-
natural kin were never meant to withstand the light.
System: To summon the final powers of Shadowcrafting, 
both the Tremere and the target must be within the same 
patch of darkness — two individuals in a closet, or both out 
on the street on a moonless night. The Tremere does not need 


Clanbook: Tremere
56
to see the individual, but must somehow sense the victim’s 
presence, whether by hearing, touch or some other apprehen-
sion. Furthermore, the darkness must be total or near-total; 
simple shadows do not suffice. Conjuring the esurient shadow 
costs five blood points (total, not in addition to the usual 
Thaumaturgy costs).
Once created, the shade-form assaults the victim and 
drains vitality. Tangible shadow attacks envelop the victim 
in a smothering blanket of darkness that bites like a school 
of barracuda. Every two successes scored on the casting roll 
cause the victim to lose one health level of lethal damage; 
additionally, the victim loses one point of Stamina for the 
remainder of the scene, as the hungry shadows suck out the 
very essence of living vitality (note that Kindred can use their 
blood to restore such losses until the next scene). Subsequent 
attacks are cumulative, so it’s possible to wear a victim down 
over multiple turns, though that’s certainly expensive and 
time-consuming for all but the most proficient thaumaturges.
The abyssal shades conjured with this power can be used 
to fight against Obtenebration, but they seem reluctant to 
do so. Instead of inflicting damage upon an opponent, the 
caster can direct the shadow power so that every two successes 
scored by the player removes one success from an Obtene-
bration effect. This can negate a power entirely or reduce its 
efficacy. Of course, the Lasombra can simply reactivate the 
appropriate Obtenebration powers, probably without nearly 
as much effort, but the surprise alone can prove invaluable.
Should the thaumaturge botch the casting roll, the 
shades still manifest but attack him instead, in addition to 
the normal Thaumaturgy botch penalty of one permanent 
Willpower point. Roll six dice and apply the results as speci-
fied above for every two successes.
MET System: When you cast this power, you must specify 
whether you wish to conjure shades against an opponent or 
counter Obtenebration. If you conjure shades, you make a 
Simple Test — on a win, your victim suffers two levels of 
lethal damage and the Negative Physical Trait Sickly; on a tie, 
the victim suffers one level of lethal damage; on a loss, you 
instead take one level of lethal damage. Should you attempt to 
counter Obtenebration, you make a Mental Challenge against 
the target in question, and if you win the Obtenebration power 
fails completely. If you lose, you take a level of lethal damage. 
The Obtenebration user gains a free retest to resist the power. 
In either case, you must expend a phenomenal five Blood 
Traits (total) to invoke the Abyssal Pact.
Thaumaturgy Rituals
The Tremere keep several rituals closely guarded within 
their ranks — some, like Pavis of the Foul Presence, because 
of their utility in countering the advantages of other clans; 
others, such as the Transubstantiation of Seven, because 
they’re integral to the functions of the Tremere as a whole. 
Because rituals allow a thaumaturge to extend the power of 
the Curse in startling and long-reaching ways, they’re often 
cautiously hoarded. Nearly every Tremere older than the rank-
est neonate hungers to develop unique personal rituals, just 
to hold power that other Kindred don’t have. Some succeed; 
others decide that the cost in time and terrible rites is too 
high, and content themselves with the already considerable 
extant knowledge of the Tremere clan.
A ritual, like other forms of Thaumaturgy, bends the 
power of the Curse to make possible various unnatural ef-
fects. Unlike the more versatile paths, though, rituals do not 
always require the use of blood. Instead, a ritual relies upon 
fixed incantations and practices, combined with principles of 
Authority and Sympathy, to create a single sorcerous effect. 
The trade lies in the effort — a ritual often requires extensive 
work to complete. Often the caster must perform dangerous 
or difficult practices, and even learning a ritual can be risky. 
By reinforcing the ritual’s power with these practices, the 
vampire overcomes the usual forms of the Curse. Just as the 
vampire remains a static creature, each ritual gives a static 
method to achieve one effect.
Rituals derive their strength from the Curse, and most 
rituals carry the unwholesome taint of the undead. A ritual 
may use special tools to try to offset this factor — some rites 
require holy water, pure silver, moonlight or other sanctifying 
ingredients — but always the caster’s essential damnation 
makes itself evident. For this reason, most rituals have a 
decidedly grim bent. By far the most common rituals are 
those that manipulate or extend the power of blood, and 
many require the use of vitae. Even rituals that focus on 
different imperatives often center around vampiric lusts 
and needs. Many rituals enforce mystic influence, prey upon 
fear or focus weapons against other undead. Few passively 
work to defend, aid or heal. No ritual dares to step upon the 
toes of sanctity. Even Thaumaturgy — “the performance of 
miracles” — cannot mimic the forms of faith, banished as 
vampires are from God’s sight.
Blood Mastery (Level One Ritual)
Whispered rumors tell that one should never allow the 
Tremere to gain access to the blood of another vampire. 
Paranoid tales in hushed tones tell of the Tremere’s mastery 
over other Kindred through the sole use of a small quantity 
of vitae. While modern, cosmopolitan Kindred scoff at such 
tales, even they are careful not to let their blood fall into the 
wrong hands, just in case.
Such caution, though, is well-deserved. A Tremere with 
even rudimentary understanding of blood can focus its power 
into sympathetic forms. By destroying another Kindred’s 
blood, the Tremere gains symbolic power over that Kindred. 
This in turn allows the Tremere to manifest his supremacy 
over the victim.
System: The thaumaturge must mix a tiny quantity of his 
own vitae (a negligible amount, less than a point) with that 
of his victim, then slowly burn it in a fire or boil the blood 
slowly over an open flame. The caster speaks the phrases of 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
57
symmetry as he finishes. Once complete, the Tremere has 
magical mastery over the victim, however briefly.
Successful completion of the Blood Mastery ritual 
guarantees a victory of some degree over the victim. In the 
next contention that the caster brings against the victim, 
the ritualist automatically succeeds. If the task would require 
some roll, the caster garners one success automatically, but 
no more (and cannot roll or spend Willpower to improve the 
roll). This means that the caster is guaranteed a marginal 
success against his opponent. Of course, it may not be in a 
fashion that the thaumaturge desires — one success alone is 
not enough to decapitate an enemy, but it might influence 
him briefly with the Dominate Discipline. Similarly, if the 
victim takes some action first, the ritual is of no help if the 
caster’s player could not normally make a countering roll. For 
example, the caster would still be subject to an opponent’s 
use of Presence, because he may not normally make a roll to 
resist. If the victim uses some Discipline that would require the 
caster to resist, though, then the thaumaturge automatically 
counters it and thus ends the power of the ritual.
Blood Mastery can only guarantee success in one limited 
endeavor — a thaumaturge cannot burn multiple points of 
blood to gain additional successes or success on multiple 
consecutive actions. Once the ritual is in place, it must be 
discharged before it can be invoked again against the same 
subject. Blood Mastery expires if its effects remain unused 
by sunrise.
MET System: Basic Ritual. Casting Blood Mastery 
requires the expenditure of one Trait each of blood from the 
caster and victim. The caster automatically succeeds in the 
next challenge that he enters against the victim. This only 
functions if a test would normally be possible: Blood Mastery 
cannot allow a Kindred to Dominate someone of lower gen-
eration, for example. Blood Mastery may not be used for a 
“called shot” (you cannot specify that you are attempting to 
decapitate someone and then automatically win; you would 
only manage to automatically hit for normal damage). Blood 
Mastery is not cumulative, only one use of Blood Mastery can 
be in effect at a time, and the effects expire at sunrise (or the 
end of the game) if unused.
Dedicate the Chantry 
(Level One Ritual)
Tremere chantries typically house arcane books, special 
resources, servants and other major assets. It’s no wonder 
they’re so closely guarded. One common practice includes 
the casting of various wards over a chantry site, to prevent 
unauthorized entry and to make the place difficult to locate. 
Dedicate the Chantry expedites this process, making it easier 
to place subsequent enchantments over the area.
To Dedicate the Chantry, the caster must walk a coun-
terclockwise circle around the entire grounds and sprinkle 
stagnant water as he travels. Once the ring is complete, the 
thaumaturge must return to the (rough) center and anoint his 
hands with the stale water, then the lowest level of the floor.
System: A dedication functions over a single building, 
so a complex of homes or an estate and grounds may require 
several castings. Once dedicated, the chantry is open to more 
defenses; any site ritual cast over the chantry, from a ward to 
potent magics like Deny the Intruder (below), has its casting 
difficulty lowered by one.
MET System: Basic Ritual. Most Tremere chantries 
can be considered augmented by this ritual; it’s fairly standard 
practice. Any place enchantments cast on dedicated ground 
get a one-Trait bonus to completion.
Purify Blood (Level One Ritual)
Kindred learned to be cautious of diseased vessels during 
the Black Plague. Experimentation showed that most diseases, 
even blood-borne ones, rarely have any effect upon Kindred, 
but that vampires can carry such diseases and pass them to 
their victims. Cautious Tremere can use a simple rite to insure 
that blood remains safe to drink. The caster simply decants 
the blood into a suitable container and makes a few passes 
of his hands over it, combined with some thaumaturgical 
phrases and a mixture of ash and crushed ginger. The blood 
lightens slightly in color if the ritual succeeds, and the rite 
cleanses all poison or disease from the sample.
Unfortuately, Purify Blood does not function on blood 
that’s still in a creature’s system. The ritual therefore cannot 
cleanse a human of disease or make drinking from such a 
vessel safe; it will only purify blood that is removed from the 
human first. Some vampires shun this ritual because of the 
extra work involved in securing blood without the Kiss, and 
the less-than-satisfactory taste (not to mention the lack of a 
warm, beating pulse) definitely puts off Kindred connoisseurs. 
For these reasons, Purify Blood remains more a survival ritual 
during desperate epidemics, not a nightly staple. (See also 
Cleansing of the Flesh, on p. 94 of Blood Magic: Secrets of 
Thaumaturgy, and Purity of Flesh, on p. 110 of the Guide to 
the Camarilla, for other applications of this ritual’s principles.)
System: A surpassingly simple ritual, Purify Blood 
requires only a minimal investment in time and effort. The 
caster can tell from the color of the blood if the rite succeeds.
Purify Blood functions on up to one point of blood. 
Because of the volume limitations, Purify Blood can cleanse 
only one blood point at a time (unless used on the vitae of 
very low-generation vampires). Poisons, diseases and other 
mixtures are removed, while foreign substances bubble to 
the top. However, the ritual does not in any way change the 
potency of the blood; vitae can still cause a blood bond, and 
blood rendered acidic or caustic by a Discipline (like Quietus 
or Vicissitude) cannot be cleansed. This ritual cannot counter 
the Vaulderie (nor is it stealthy enough to perform unnoticed 
in the midst of such a rite). Rotten, solidified or otherwise 
befouled blood also vanishes if subjected to the ritual, so a 
vampire needn’t fear gagging on old, dead blood.


Clanbook: Tremere
58
MET System: Basic Ritual. No special live-action rules 
apply for Purify Blood; it simply allows the caster to purify 
a single Blood Trait, subject to the same limitations listed 
previously.
Scent of the Lupine’s Passing 
(Level One Ritual)
Developed in a besieged Carpathian chantry where Tre-
mere fell as often to the claws of night-black Lupines as to the 
other clans, this simple ritual lets the caster scent Lupines in 
the area. The thaumaturge prepares a small herbal bundle with 
milkweed, wolfsbane, sage and a handful of simple grass. With 
a short set of phrases she takes a whiff from the mixture, after 
which she can immediately tell any Lupine by scent. This does 
not mean that she can detect Lupines at a distance, merely that 
she can tell if a specific person’s smell happens to be Lupine, 
which can be useful when combined with augmented senses. 
System: The thaumaturge simply completes the ritual 
and sniffs from the herbal bundle. Afterward, she can detect 
Lupines by scent; actually sniffing someone up close would 
require no roll, but catching a scent at a distance of a few 
feet might take a Perception + Alertness roll (difficulty 6). 
Detecting a Lupine hidden around a corner, for example, 
could increase the difficulty to 8. This scent distinction lasts 
for an entire scene.
MET System: See Laws of the Night Revised, p. 186.
Deny the Intruder (Level Two Ritual)
To protect chantries from unwanted observation, Tre-
mere rely not only upon mystic wards but also upon mortal 
bureaucracy. An enemy can hardly drop in if the chantry 
isn’t listed in any directories or real estate paperwork, after 
all. Better still, a little judicious paper-shuffling can “lose” 
records for electrical payments, telephone calls and other 
incriminating evidence.
To set up a chantry’s bureaucratic defense, the Tremere 
simply scrawls a series of mystic characters on a piece of paper. 
This page goes out by mail (some modern Tremere even scan 
the page and use e-mail) and promptly becomes lost in the 
system. For the next year, the chantry becomes difficult to 
track via the usual paperwork routes.
System: There’s no special cost for the paperwork in-
volved in this ritual, though the Tremere must scrawl out the 
characters with charcoal. Once the paper makes it into “the 
system” — by the hands of the mailman, by e-mail to some 
server, or what have you — it vanishes without a trace. So, 
too, do the records of the chantry. Attempts to investigate the 
chantry or unearth records of its existence increase in difficulty 
by one for each success scored on the ritual roll. This doesn’t 
hinder the chantry’s normal functions; the telephones still 
work and the electricity still runs. It’s just that nobody ever 
sends the bills directly to the chantry or writes anything in 
the credit memos that reveals the building’s location.
MET System: Basic Ritual. All Influence actions to 
address a chantry defended with Deny the Intruder require 
double the normal Influence level. Thus, using Bureaucracy 
Influence to trace utility bills would require two levels of 
Bureaucracy Influence instead of one.
Inscription (Level Two Ritual)
Not everyone can be proficient with Thaumaturgy. Some 
Tremere build mystic items specifically to aid their subordi-
nates or allies. A neonate with only the rudiments of skill 
may have need of a specific ritual, or another Kindred might 
desire to purchase the special services of Thaumaturgy but 
need them for his own later use. Instead of taking the time 
and risk to instruct someone else in the fine points of the 
working in question, a proficient thaumaturge can build an 
annotated version of a ritual, fueled with his blood, to make 
the formula accessible to someone else.
The Inscription ritual allows the thaumaturge to place 
any other first- or second-level ritual in a written form. This 
generally requires the equivalent of a full page of paper. A 
reader can then unlock the power of that ritual by reading the 
inscription and following its instructions. The scribe uses his 
blood as a base for the ink, and his vitae’s power remains in 
the mixture to help fuel the ritual. An inscribed ritual is in 
imperfect form — it cannot be used to learn Thaumaturgy. 
It’s a simplified set of instructions, with the scribe’s vitae 
empowering the rite so that it overcomes any omissions or 
sloppiness on the part of the practitioner.
System: A thaumaturge who knows the techniques of 
Inscription can write an abbreviated form for any first- or 
second-level ritual that he knows, at a cost of two blood 
points. Anyone who can read the language may then use 
the ritual notes later. Actually casting the ritual from the 
notes requires the use of the usual components and time, 
as well as the standard Intelligence + Occult roll, but the 
caster need not have any knowledge of Thaumaturgy. Once 
an inscription is complete, the power of the writer’s vitae is 
trapped in the object; his maximum blood pool is effectively 
reduced by one until the inscription is used. After use, the 
inscription dries into a fine, illegible ash, with all the power 
expelled from the vitae-based ink. The scribe can use the scroll 
himself (which is rather pointless) or give it to someone else. 
To prevent an inscription from reaching the wrong subject, 
many scribes also use Encrypt Missive (Blood Magic: Secrets 
of Thaumaturgy, p. 87) with this ritual.
Rumor holds that more powerful forms of inscription can 
create annotations for higher-level rituals, but only elders 
would know for certain. It is known that the blood powering 
Inscription can be used for links of Sympathy and Identity 
— an incautious Tremere could find his blood in the hands 
of an enemy who can use it against him.
MET System: Basic Ritual. A Storyteller must be pres-
ent for you to use Inscription. You give your Blood Trait card 
to the Storyteller, who should make a special mark on your 
sheet (placing an “I” over each used Blood Trait circle is a 
good idea). Place your Inscription upon an item card, with 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
59
a note of the ritual and your character’s name (so that the 
Storytellers can tell who wrote it when it’s used up).
The Open Passage (Level Two Ritual)
Walls, locked doors and even sealed vaults cannot stop 
a thaumaturge with the Open Passage ritual. The caster 
smears snake or vermin excrement over the surface in an 
intricate pattern, which takes an hour to complete. Once 
finished, the caster becomes insubstantial with respect to 
that surface — she can walk through a wall or door, yet can 
still touch and interact with anything attached to it (like a 
mirror or wooden shelf).
System: The Open Passage lasts for one turn, so the 
caster must be quick in stepping through the barrier.
MET System: See Laws of the Night Revised, p. 185.
Ritual’s Recognition 
(Level Two Ritual)
Some thaumaturgical rituals don’t have an immediately 
visible effect. A ritual’s success or failure may not be imme-
diately apparent; cautious thaumaturges need a way to tell if 
their rituals work. Even a competent thaumaturge’s rituals fail 
from time to time. Most would consider a few extra minutes 
of work worth the trouble to make sure that, say, a Deflec-
tion of Wooden Doom ritual functions properly, instead of 
finding out the hard way.
To set up Ritual’s Recognition, the caster must sever 
the last eighth of an inch of his nose or an earlobe and crush 
the fleshy bit in an ivory mortar and pestle. He then dusts 
his face with the resulting paste. Immediately afterward, 
the thaumaturge casts another ritual; upon completion, the 
thaumaturge can tell whether the ritual succeeded or failed.
System: Casting Ritual’s Recognition causes one level 
of unsoakable bashing damage as the caster removes a gobbet 
of skin. Once complete, the thaumaturge must immediately 
begin his next ritual. When that ritual is finished, the caster 
automatically knows whether or not it succeeded, even if it 
would normally have no visible effect. By design, the caster 
can automatically tell if Ritual’s Recognition succeeded, and 
can regrow the lost bit and recast it if it failed. In either 
case, the caster feels a warm flush upon completion of a 
successful rite.
MET System: Basic Ritual. Using Ritual’s Recognition 
adds on its casting time to any other ritual, so it takes longer 
to finish even a simple Deflection of Wooden Doom. However, 
you are considered aware of the results of your ritual test.
Inhereted Affinity (Level Three Ritual)
Although it’s possible to learn Thaumaturgy with long 
and difficult study, experienced Tremere can help a student 
to “attune” his blood more closely to the twisted form of the 
Curse necessary for thaumaturgical practice. Students who 
are sluggish in mastering the basics of Thaumaturgy often 
suffer through this ritual once, which seems to “open the 
door,” so to speak. Non-Tremere Kindred have a rougher 


Clanbook: Tremere
60
time — should they find a willing tutor, this ritual can help in 
learning Thaumaturgy, but it’s still a slow and painful process.
To awaken the Inherited Affinity, the caster must have 
uninterrupted access to the subject for an entire night. 
Typically the subject is chained to a wall, so as to avoid 
having her break loose and cause havoc. The caster feeds 
the subject a nauseating concoction of rendered fat, various 
herbs and powdered garnet all steeped in blood. Then the 
thaumaturge inserts six heated, gold-plated needles into 
various points of the subject’s anatomy — points of bodily 
power, generally, though the exact locations vary from caster 
to caster. Over the next three hours, the caster instructs 
the subject to infuse her body with the power of her vitae. 
The needles block off usual sources of blood circulation 
and alter the results (often quite painfully), complete with 
bloody splotches on the skin, profoundly distended veins 
and bleeding from various pores. Once complete, the subject 
may practice the new vistas of Thaumaturgy. This, of course, 
requires that the subject ingest yet more vitae to replace 
that lost through the ritual.
Many regents know how to use the Inherited Affinity, 
and it’s common to put a newly Embraced neonate through 
this process to help awaken the power of blood magic. The 
subject must remember the feelings of the blood flow from 
the course of the rite; for most Tremere, this comes naturally 
after one application.
System: Surviving the Inherited Affinity ritual does not 
guarantee that a subject can learn Thaumaturgy, but it helps. 
The end result is up to the Storyteller — if the Storyteller 
requires players to make various study rolls to unearth thau-
maturgical knowledge or rituals, going through the Inherited 
Affinity ritual may lower the difficulty. The ritual itself takes 
three nights of time and requires the subject to suffer through 
five levels of lethal damage and to expend all but one blood 
point; it’s most helpful if the subject then imbibes additional 
blood and contemplates the feelings evoked. Obviously, a 
Kindred is subject to the usual chances of frenzy from hunger 
and injury due to this ritual.
MET System: Intermediate Ritual. The Inherited Af-
finity ritual is a good way to keep Thaumaturgy from getting 
out of Tremere hands, if your players are the sorts to do that. 
You can simply rule that non-Tremere studying Thaumaturgy 
take several years to learn the rudiments of the Discipline 
unless they successfully undergo this ritual. Will they do it 
for the lure of power? Will they trust the Tremere enough to 
try? Will they be willing to take five lethal wound levels and 
lose all but one Blood Trait in the process, leaving them at 
the mercy of the caster?
Power of the Pyramid 
(Level Three Ritual)
Among the Tremere clan’s most famous exploits are its 
great binding rituals over the entirety of the Tremere antitribu, 
and the majority of the Assamite clan. No lone thaumaturge 
could accomplish such a feat. Only by sharing strength can 
the Tremere achieve the necessary might to create or resist 
such forces.
To combine thaumaturgical strength, Tremere Kindred 
can use a linking ritual. The Power of the Pyramid rite 
requires that each participant know and invoke the ritual 
simultaneously, and requires physical contact — so a group 
of Tremere, formed in a circle with linked hands, all chanting 
the same words in unison, indicates that the clan prepares for 
a daunting task. Once completed, the rite allows the Tremere 
involved to gather their mental strength together so that they 
can multiply their power.
Perhaps because of its connotations, this ritual only works 
for Kindred of Tremere lineage. Other vampires might be able 
to learn it, but it would probably not do them much good.
This ritual requires the casters to fast for 24 hours before 
performing it. Additionally, one of the thaumaturges partici-
pating in the group must wear a brooch or pin made from 
mortal bone, which must pierce his flesh (though it need not 
be visible to the rest of the group).
System: Each Kindred involved in Power of the Pyramid 
must know this ritual and successfully cast it simultaneously 
— any failed castings simply exclude the individual from the 
circle but do not hinder other successes. Once complete, a 
single Tremere can break from the circle without nullifying 
the ritual, but if any others lose physical contact the ritual 
ends. So long as the ritual continues, all participants may 
freely share their Willpower. Thus, one Tremere could break 
from the circle, perform another ritual and draw upon the 
Willpower of all Kindred involved. Once a caster has broken 
from the circle, he cannot return and release someone else; 
that “lynchpin” is the only one able to move around freely.
MET System: As with the tabletop version of this ritual, 
all successful participants in the Power of the Pyramid may 
freely share their Willpower Traits. Members of the circle 
can lend their Willpower to other members for further ritu-
als, Trait refreshing, psychic combat and so on. Only one 
vampire may leave the circle to cast another ritual or perform 
other activities.
Rutor’s Hands (Level Three Ritual)
Gargoyles and homunculi remain relatively common in 
some Tremere chantries, but few Kindred know of Rutor’s 
Hands, or would want to. A thaumaturge of sufficient will 
can pluck out his own eye and set it atop one of his own 
severed hands — the ritual preserves them from disintegra-
tion — and animate this thing as a scurrying, malevolent spy. 
The eye rests on the back of the hand and swivels about to 
watch its surroundings, while the hand scuttles like a desic-
cated spider. The construct obeys the will of its owner and 
can relay what it sees and hears (even though it has no ears) 
back to its master, as the thaumaturge desires.
System: The thaumaturge cuts off his hand and plucks 
out his eye at the conclusion of this ritual; this causes five 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
61
levels of unsoakable aggravated damage. Once this damage 
is healed, the Tremere regenerates his hand and eye, though 
the ghastly homunculus may still prowl. Completing this 
ritual may also require a Willpower roll, at the Storyteller’s 
discretion, simply to carry out the painful finale. The animate 
hand has one health level of its own and moves about with 
the equivalent of two dots in each Physical Attribute and 
in Perception, though it cannot fight. The caster mentally 
directs the thing’s movement at will (so long as the thauma-
turge remains conscious, of course). The Hand must have one 
point of blood each week, or else it crumbles to dust. Likewise, 
if the hand is exposed to sunlight or fire, it vanishes with a 
squeal and leaves a greasy stench.
MET System: See Laws of the Night Revised, p. 187.
Transubstantiation of Seven 
(Level Three Ritual)
Even many outsiders know that the Tremere hold a blood 
loyalty to their clan, but the extent of this loyalty — or the 
means by which it’s accomplished — remains a secret. Almost 
every Tremere holds a slight bond to the Council of Seven 
through their mixed blood. Of course, the Council cannot 
expect every newly Embraced neonate to come to Vienna 
to drink of their blood. Nor can they simply ship their blood 
around the world — both solutions are far too impractical and 
dangerous, as any number of waiting Kindred would relish 
the thought of stealing such vitae or intercepting Tremere 
neonates and destroying them before they can become threats. 
To overcome this problem, most regents know and use this 
ritual instead.
After the Embrace, a Tremere neonate typically goes 
through a formal oath-swearing. No magic compels that 
oath, but the presiding regent (or higher ranking Tremere) 
ends the formality with the Transubstantiation. The ritual-
ist fills a large chalice with his own blood and intones the 
syllables of the ritual. The neonate, still grappling with the 
new phenomenon of blood-thirst, drinks the entire contents 
of the chalice. As the blood enters and spreads through her 
system, the rite mystically transforms it into the blood of 
the Seven. By this means, the Tremere place each neonate 
a step toward a full bond with the council, without the risk 
of having enemies steal the council’s blood.
The Transubstantiation is considered a requirement for 
a fledgling to be recognized socially as a true member of the 
Tremere clan. For this reason, the vast majority of regents learn 
this ritual, which incidentally guarantees that most regents 
are at least reasonably competent with Thaumaturgy. Even 
in chantries where the regent lacks this power, some Tremere 
instructed in this rite must be present for any new Embrace, 
unless the hapless sire wishes to risk the ire of the clan.
Those who undergo the ritual, and indeed, many who 
have the ability to perform it, know little of its mechanical 
workings. Obviously, the transmuted blood is that of the 
Council of Seven — but how vast are their stores that they 
can transfuse neonates at the whims of those conducting the 
ritual? Where does the neonate’s blood go? Whispers of a 
hidden vault beneath Vienna with labeled, preserved vials of 
vitae from every Kindred who has ever undergone this ritual 
can’t possibly be true, can they?
System: The caster of the Transubstantiation must sac-
rifice a full quart of his blood — volume, not blood points, are 
required. The blood placed in the chalice remains unchanged 
until after it’s imbibed and then spread throughout the sub-
ject’s system, at which point it takes on the properties of the 
Council of Seven. This causes one step toward a blood bond 
to the whole council, but guarantees that the councilors’ vitae 
cannot be stolen. Because the blood is already in the subject’s 
system, it counts as his own vitae if it is later drained out.
In truth, there is no physical requirement that this rite 
be used on a new neonate. A rare few Tremere neonates 
escape the process, while conversely the rite could be used 
to generate a stronger bond in older Tremere or even in 
ghouls or Kindred of other clans. Kindred of the 14th or 
15th generations, ghouls and revenants cannot use this rite 
— their blood is not sufficiently strong enough to channel 
the councilors’ power.
MET System: Intermediate Ritual. The Transubstantia-
tion makes for an excellent roleplaying scene, as a new Kindred 
is brought into the fold. The caster simply sacrifices three 
Traits of blood (place your Blood Trait cards in a container) 
to the subject. This works best when used in conjunction 
with the oath-swearing.
Blood Certámen (Level Four Ritual)
While most modern Tremere apprentices see Thauma-
turgy as a distinct property of their blood, some aged Tremere 
who survived the Long Night remember nights as mortal 
wizards. The clan’s very foundation rests upon the traditions 
of those wizards — tribunals, apprenticeships, the Tremere 
Oath; all stem from the organization that the Tremere aban-
doned in their plummet into damnation. Among those early 
practices was one magical rite used to settle disputes. Even 
though the Tremere traded their mortal sorcery for blood 
magic, they managed to find ways to turn their old practices 
to their undead state, and the ritual of certámen made that 
transition as well.
Certámen exists as one of the oldest forms of dispute 
resolution between wizards, or so the elder Tremere say. In the 
modern nights, certámen takes a decidedly sinister form, and 
remains in the hands of very few Tremere. Indeed, perhaps 
only a half-dozen Tremere below the rank of regent know the 
ritual itself, and a handful more remain aware of its existence. 
Still, its use remains protected by ancient tradition, and a 
Tremere without other recourse can, if he is even aware of it, 
call for certámen to settle a quarrel. One pontifex supposedly 
favors certámen as a traditional measure and a hallmark of 
a true and loyal Tremere — and correspondingly evidences 
terrifying skill with the practice.


Clanbook: Tremere
62
The rite of certámen opens with a formal declaration 
of challenge, though that does not constitute part of the 
actual ritual. The rite itself sees the contenders in a circle of 
blood or vitreous humour, where by technique and form — 
the power to harness Thaumaturgy — they shall settle the 
matter. A circle 10 paces across marks the boundaries of the 
competition, while each participant stands in an interior 
circle two paces wide and faces the opponent. The interior 
circles’ outer edges just touch upon the inner ring of the large 
circle, so the competitors stand just a short distance apart. 
The participants state their terms immediately upon entering 
the circle, challenger declaring what he stands to gain and 
defender declaring three limits upon the forms of the combat. 
Each one intones the ritual for certámen; when both complete 
it, the test of blood begins, to end only in death, submission 
or the judgment of a presiding arbiter.
By tradition, each participant brings a second, who 
makes announcement of his contender and handles offices 
such as holding the participant’s trappings or ritual accoutre-
ments. The seconds stand behind and to the right of their 
participants. A (supposedly) neutral party arbitrates, and 
may end the certámen at his discretion; he can, for instance, 
intervene to prevent a prodigious apprentice from destroying 
a regent. The arbiter determines or ratifies the victor, and 
also overrules the apparent victor in rare cases of cheating 
(though technically, the only way to “cheat” at certámen is to 
bring in magical artifacts or excess blood without announcing 
their presence to the arbiter and opponent). The arbiter also 
determines whether a given certámen contest has a definitive 
result. Should, say, one contender simply use Movement of 
Mind to force the other out of the ring a few seconds into 
the contest, or should both participants exhaust their stores 
of vitae without a clear victor, the arbiter may declare the 
matter inconclusive or a draw.
Certámen allows a thaumaturge to extend his usual path 
effects into more symbolic and devastating forms. Fire magics 
become incendiary greatswords or demonic flamebolts; spirit 
minions become translucent, armed legionnaires; weather 
sorcery takes on a viciously turgid aspect. Onlookers watch 
as the two Tremere contend with the mightiest blood magic 
at their disposal. Ultimately one must give way or be slain. 
Each participant holds comparable amounts of power, while 
the ritual causes Thaumaturgy cast by the two to evidence 
mystic traces and patterns that allow onlookers to tell what’s 
happening and even give the participants some ability to 
defend against the opponent’s attacks. Victory goes to finesse 
and broad knowledge, not to raw power. Should a participant 
frenzy, his second (and any attending guards) must put him 
down immediately; he loses the contest. Similarly, stepping 
from the inner circle immediately results in forfeiture. Comple-
tion of the ritual does not mystically bind either participant 
to its terms, but failure to adhere to one’s own agreed-upon 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
63
Mark of Amaranth (Level Four Ritual)
Among Kindred, diablerie is regarded as a great crime 
— many elders go to extraordinary lengths to extinguish an 
upstart neonate who evidences a hunger for the blood of his 
fellows. Deceptive Tremere can turn this paranoia against a 
hapless victim. All that’s needed is some intimate possession 
of the target, and the destruction of another Kindred.…
System: The thaumaturge must destroy another Kindred 
by his own hand, while holding or wearing some possession 
of the subject. He may then invoke this ritual by placing 
the object in the dead Kindred’s corpse before it crumbles 
to ash. Once the ritual is completed, the subject exhibits the 
evidence of a diablerist to all forms of divination until the 
next sunrise. This includes Aura Perception, the Blood Walk 
ritual and any other sort of scrying.
The Mark of Amaranth cannot be deferred by the Soul 
Mask Discipline, though higher levels of Obfuscate or certain 
advanced rituals might be able to counter it. Note that the 
ritual does not necessarily cause the victim to think that he’s 
a diablerist — an innocent victim can truthfully answer that 
he is not a diablerist, even as his aura contradicts him.
Naturally, use of this ritual is an efficient way to rapidly 
erode one’s Humanity.
MET System: Intermediate Ritual. Mark of Amaranth 
functions as described above — you need only get an item of 
something of significance from the victim, then douse it with 
the remains of a vampire whom you killed yourself. Your victim 
appears as a diablerist to all forms of detection until sunup.
Soul of the Homunculus 
(Level Four Ritual)
Tremere in need of assistants for their research work 
cannot always rely upon the loyalty of apprentices. But who 
can doubt the loyalty of one’s own flesh? A homunculus is 
a tiny creature crafted out of the caster’s blood and tissue, 
which acts as an extension of the caster’s will.
Crafting a homunculus takes several hours of uninterrupt-
ed work, and a thaumaturge can have only one homunculus 
at a time. The horrid little entity takes shape in a bubbling 
morass of oil, blood, denuded bone and chunks of the caster’s 
body. At the conclusion of the ritual, the homunculus crawls 
from its fatty birthing caul to serve its master. The homunculus 
can move about under its own power, and may be used as a 
spy or a means to fetch materials.
Many types of homunculi exist; different thaumaturges 
create different sorts of beasts. The most common are flyers 
(which resemble tiny winged demons), grubs (which look 
like worms with their masters’ faces), and hoppers (small, 
bald, implike entities with their casters’ features reduced to 
miniature). The homunculus acts according to its master’s 
orders, which may be issued nonverbally as long as the beast 
is in its creator’s presence. Over time, some homunculi de-
velop their own personalities and goals, and more than one 
certámen carries grave weight with nearly every Tremere, and 
may well lead to condemnation as a rogue (assuming that the 
oathbreaker survived the experience).
Of course, in the Final Nights certámen exists more as a 
curiosity than as a common practice. Some few Tremere do 
use it, but certámen is never frequent nor lightly invoked. A 
Tremere can decline a challenge of certámen, though doing 
so usually entails a loss of face among the more traditional 
members of the clan. Successful certámen garners some small 
amount of prestige among the few who still consider it an art, 
but its use remains restricted to personal disputes. A Tremere 
cannot use certámen to force a superior to give him rank or to 
show off his thaumaturgical might, but he could use the rite 
to legitimately depose a superior with whom he had a personal 
grievance or to force a peer to stop interfering in his affairs. 
Similarly, a higher-ranking Tremere may step in as arbiter, and 
an dour pontifex may very well stop the whole process before it 
begins. And, of course, if the battle results in death, why then 
someone more competent than the loser must step forward to 
take over the late Kindred’s assets and duties.
To this night, very few members of the other clans have 
even heard of certámen. Elder Tremere intend to keep it that way.
System: Certámen ultimately serves a simple game me-
chanical purpose: the two (always and only two) Tremere 
involved in certámen may expend exactly two blood points 
per turn, regardless of generation. Futhermore, at a cost of 
one blood point, a player may make a Willpower roll against 
the opponent’s Thaumaturgy roll, with the difficulty being 
the opposite character’s Thaumaturgy. This acts as a normal 
resisted roll, canceling out the opponent’s successes. Because 
certámen highlights all thaumaturgical actions, the player 
can roll Intelligence + Occult (difficulty varies by power) to 
recognize most incoming thaumaturgical effects and decide 
whether or not to defend against or respond to them, as if us-
ing the power Thaumaturgical Sight (p. 47). This allows the 
participants to invoke potent Thaumaturgy and to defend more 
ably against incoming attacks. The certámen ritual imposes 
these modifiers only so long as both participants remain in 
their respective circles.
MET System: The Blood Certámen ritual works as a 
wonderful roleplaying tool. Set the scene in a dim room 
with your Tremere players attending, lay out a pair of small 
circles, and have the two participants stand in their appropri-
ate stations. Encourage your players to bring their elaborate 
props and to act out their Thaumaturgy to some degree; this 
is, after all, high ritual.
Whenever a participant uses Thaumaturgy, he must call 
out the power that he invokes. The opponent, if he fails a 
test to defend against a power, can spend one Blood Trait for 
a retest. Blood Certámen contests can thus become drawn-out 
affairs with neither Kindred gaining a definitive upper hand. 
Each participant may spend exactly two Blood Traits per turn 
while in the ritual.


Clanbook: Tremere
64
unnerved Tremere has discovered his homunculus playing 
malicious pranks behind his back.
System: A homunculus has two health levels and two 
dots in each Physical Attribute. It works much like a limb of 
the creator — the homunculus only moves or acts if the caster 
so wills it. A homunculus cannot fight effectively, but can 
push or carry objects, and can often hide or spy on locations 
unnoticed due to its small size. Though the homunculus is 
initially wholly loyal, its experiences may eventually (over 
years) cause it to form a personality of its own, often spawned 
from the worst qualities of its creator. Homunculi are damaged 
by sunlight and fire like Kindred.
A homunculus, though created from the caster’s flesh, is a 
separate physical entity and thus does not count as an arcane 
connection, nor do its bodily fluids count as its creator’s blood. 
However, establishing a psychic connection to a homunculus 
instead projects into the consciousness of its controller.
A homunculus must be fed one blood point each week 
or it will wither and die. Feeding may be an unsettling 
act to witness — some Tremere suckle them at their own 
breasts, acting on some undead parental urge, while others 
treat their imps derisively, holding their opened wrists far 
above the creature’s head while forcing it to caper about for 
its sustenance.
MET System: See Laws of the Night Revised, p. 187.
Unweave Ritual (Level Four Ritual)
With the preponderance of cursing rituals among the 
jealous Warlocks, it’s only a matter of time until a Tremere 
labors under the effects of an enemy’s magic. Whether it’s 
another Tremere eager to discomfit a political adversary, or 
some non-Tremere thaumaturge looking for retribution, hav-
ing Thaumaturgy turned around against its supposed masters 
makes for a bitter aftertaste indeed.
Once a Tremere manages to identify the enemy ritual 
under which he labors, it’s possible to build a counter-sorcery 
to unweave it. Thaumaturges skilled in this magic learn 
general principles to confound other rituals, shrug off their 
effects or collapse them prematurely.
System: First, the caster must figure out what ritual cur-
rently afflicts him. This is probably automatic if he knows the 
ritual (unless the caster has been very subtle or the subject is 
daft), but may require some research (and Intelligence + Oc-
cult rolls, at the Storyteller’s discretion) otherwise. Next, the 
unweaving takes place. The caster must secure a component 
that would be used in the casting of the offending ritual, then 
destroy it in some fashion. His successes subtract from the 
successes scored by the original caster; if he manages to wipe 
away all of the successes, the offending ritual immediately 
ends, with all concomitant effects. Thus, a quick end to Bind 
the Accusing Tongue would allow the Tremere to speak ill of 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
65
his enemies again, but a premature end to a Blood Contract 
would painfully shove him into torpor, and a premature end 
to Night of the Red Heart would result in Final Death.
Only rituals that have a duration can be unwoven. For 
instance, a Tremere who has thrown off a blood bond through 
Abandon the Fetters (below) is not constantly under the ef-
fects of that ritual — once the ritual is complete, the bond 
is gone and the ritual is done. However, a Tremere suffering 
from Steps of the Terrified would be considered under the 
duration of the ritual as long as it slowed his movement, 
so it could be unwoven. Note that a thaumaturge can only 
unweave a ritual on himself, not one on someone else. Also, 
a thaumaturge suffering from multiple rituals must unweave 
each one separately. Multiple unweavings can be accumulated 
against a ritual so long as the appropriate time and compo-
nents can be acquired.
MET System: Intermediate Ritual. To unweave an 
enemy ritual, you must acquire the components necessary for 
the original ritual and make a Mental Challenge against the 
original caster (find a Storyteller to conduct the test privately; 
you need not let the opponent know what you are doing). If 
you succeed, the ritual comes to an immediate end, and you 
suffer all results for the end of the ritual (if any).
Abandon the Fetters (Level Five Ritual)
As closely guarded as any secret within the clan, Aban-
don the Fetters seems to depart from normal conventions of 
Thaumaturgy. Occult theorists note that it has more in com-
mon with primal, passionate sorcery than with the cerebral, 
systematic approach to Hermetic blood magic. A few even 
darkly hint at its similarities to the Vaulderie — for the ritual 
to Abandon the Fetters shatters the blood bond.
Breaking a blood bond is a grueling process. The thau-
maturge must have unrestricted access to the subject, as well 
as a sample of blood from the master. The ritual requires an 
entire night; its execution is excruciating for both caster and 
subject. The thaumaturge forms a bond to the subject and 
master with a mixture of blood from all three, placed in a glass 
container. Next, the caster must exsanguinate and excoriate 
the subject — the manner is up to the ritualist’s individual 
style; some might mortify the flesh with lashes, while others 
might apply brands. Once the subject hangs on the thread 
of demise, the caster shatters the glass container, spilling the 
blood to the ground and snapping the thread of the bond. 
The mixture of blood evaporates in a hissing, scalding steam, 
and the subject is freed.
Of course, Abandon the Fetters remains one of the rarest 
of Tremere secrets. Few Warlocks could be trusted with such 
potent knowledge. Indeed, the merest hint that a Tremere 
can perform this ritual is enough to cause other Kindred to 
eye her with renewed suspicion — the Tremere have sorcer-
ous ways to steal blood, so who’s to say that a thaumaturge 
couldn’t release someone’s thralls and bond them to herself 
instead? Even those Kindred who suffer under the bond’s lash 
would rarely trust a Tremere enough to risk going through 
this process.
System: The thaumaturge must have one point of blood 
from himself, the subject and the subject’s regnant. (If the 
caster happens to be the subject or regnant, no additional blood 
is needed.) The excoriation causes three levels of unsoakable 
aggravated damage to the subject, as flesh is flayed or burned 
away. The final venomous steam inflicts an additional level of 
unsoakable aggravated damage upon both the caster and the 
subject. The subject loses a permanent point of Willpower, but 
if the ritual succeeds, the blood bond atrophies immediately. 
However, this offers no protection against the formation of 
another, later bond.
MET System: Advanced Ritual. Breaking a blood bond 
requires one Blood Trait each from caster, subject and regnant 
(though again, if the caster is also the subject or regnant, no 
additional blood is required). The subject takes four levels 
of aggravated damage (two in compressed scale) and loses 
one permanent Willpower Trait, while the caster suffers one 
level of aggravated damage. As always, the ritual requires 
a successful Static Challenge to complete. Obviously, you 
should not engage in actual physical contact or excoriation 
for this ritual. Because of the time involved, the ritual is best 
performed out of play, though it can make for an interesting 
scene if someone interrupts in the middle of the rite.
Night of the Red Heart 
(Level Five Ritual)
Neonates whisper that Tremere elders can utterly destroy 
their enemies with but a sample of vitae. Although little is 
ever that simple, some truth lies behind the dread rumor. 
With Night of the Red Heart, a thaumaturge can send his 
enemies shrieking in terror, slay them outright or force a 
confrontation.
The thaumaturge needs only a quantitative sample of 
the victim’s blood. Over the course of an entire night, the 
caster chants the syllables of the ritual continuously. After 
the first iteration of the ritual (which takes about 10 min-
utes), the victim suddenly feels a foreboding sense of dread. 
Whenever the subject faces the caster, he realizes that a ritual 
is in progress to slay him — and that he must either escape 
its power, or else find and interrupt the caster by following 
the preternatural knowledge imparted. Once the ritual ends 
at sunrise, if the victim is within its range, he spectacularly 
crumbles to ash in a matter of seconds.
In addition to the victim’s blood, the caster must have 
an effigy of the victim that he has carved himself from bone, 
rotten wood harvested at midnight or stone from the grave 
of a faithful priest’s headstone.
System: Although extremely potent, Night of the Red 
Heart is not an all-powerful ritual. Chances are, as soon as 
it begins, the victim will either flee the city or else hunt 
down the caster. Because there are no holds barred — death 
or failure — this likely means that the victim will not stop 


Clanbook: Tremere
66
until he can destroy the thaumaturge. Should the caster man-
age to complete the ritual with a full point of the victim’s 
blood, though, the hapless subject immediately collapses to 
Final Death.
The player rolls for the ritual’s success as soon as cast-
ing begins — if the roll fails, then the ritual will not work 
and the victim will feel nothing (although the caster doesn’t 
necessarily know this.) The player must also expend one 
Willpower point to continue the casting for the duration of 
the entire night, and if the ritual is stopped or interrupted 
in any way, it fails.
Night of the Red Heart has a limited range. Popular 
lore holds that the rite works “for seven leagues beyond the 
accursed’s haven”; scientific thaumaturges credit the rite 
with a range of 30 to 35 miles. Regardless, the subject can 
immediately tell if he has managed to escape the ritual’s range, 
because the sense of dread vanishes — but if he returns while 
the ritual remains in progress, he once again comes under 
its influence. Note that although the subject can tell if he 
manages to escape the ritual’s range, the caster does not know 
this; it’s possible to cast Night of the Red Heart upon someone 
who’s not in range, without knowing that the ritual will fail.
MET System: Advanced Ritual. You must cast this ritual 
out of play; a Storyteller should be alerted when you begin, 
so that you can expend the Blood Traits from the victim and 
one of your Willpower Traits, and so that a Narrator can 
alert the subject. Obviously, the victim will probably try to 
flee the city or else hunt down and stop you. If the ritual is 
interrupted, it ends immediately without effect. Otherwise, 
use the description above. So long as all the conditions are 
met and the ritual is cast successfully, there are no further 
tests required.
Bone of Contention (Level Six Ritual)
Weak princes sometimes rely on a Bone of Lies (Vampire: 
The Masquerade, p. 184-185) to “interview” new arrivals in 
their domains. While the Bone of Lies is useful in weeding 
out Sabbat infiltrators, diablerists and other problem cases, it’s 
also a good way to earn the ire of the city’s respected Kindred 
— few Kindred enjoy being accused of lying. Still, paranoid 
princes rely on the bone to keep an iron hold over their 
domains, so the Tremere recently devised this ritual variant.
Like a Bone of Lies, a Bone of Contention comes from 
a hundred-year-old fingerbone steeped in blood over several 
nights. Unlike a Bone of Lies, though, the Bone of Contention 
doesn’t compel truth; rather, it aids the Tremere in deception.
Naturally, this ritual’s very existence is a viciously guarded 
secret. If princes discovered that their Bones of Lies actually 
just gave whatever answers the Tremere wanted… well, it 
wouldn’t be more than they’d expect, but it wouldn’t be 
pretty, either.
System: A Bone of Contention looks like a Bone of Lies: 
an aged fingerbone with ritual magic placed upon it. While 
a Bone of Lies darkens and forces truth whenever the holder 
lies, a Bone of Contention acts in this fashion only when its 
creator so wills. The Tremere can cause the bone to darken 
and then force the holder to speak a lie that the speaker is 
forced to believe, so long as the thaumaturge can see the bone. 
Like a Bone of Lies, a Bone of Contention only functions 10 
times. In the creator’s absence, a Bone of Contention func-
tions like a normal Bone of Lies, simply to avoid possible 
complications (“This Bone of Lies failed to work when you 
were missing from the last convocation. Is there something 
you want to tell us?”).
MET System: Superior Ritual. So long as its creator can 
see it, the Bone of Contention functions as described above. 
A Storyteller should be on hand to verify that the subject is 
forced to speak an appropriate lie, if necessary.
Tremere Merits and Flaws
A Tremere is a vampire just like any other, but a very few 
specific benefits or problems go along with being a Tremere. 
Even the most rigid of clans sees the occasional aberration— 
er, anomaly, of course.
Storytellers may choose to use these simply as story seeds. 
Giving extra points to someone for something that might not 
have any value in a specific story — like, say, extra points for 
playing a Tremere anarch in an all-anarch chronicle — is a 
quick way to entice people into abusing the system. If you 
like Merits and Flaws, great; if not, you can use these as ideas 
for story hooks. More information on Merits and Flaws may 
be found in the Appendix of Vampire: The Masquerade.
Attuned Taste 
(2-pt. Supernatural Merit)
For whatever reason, your character finds blood magic 
instinctive — more so than for most Tremere. When your 
Tremere tastes blood, she naturally tastes the subtle currents 
and occult correspondences in the vitae. To her, it’s not even 
magic; tt’s just a heightened state of taste stemming from the 
Embrace and the Tremere clan’s long experience with blood.
When your character tastes blood, she may automatically 
glean one fact about the source, as per the Level One Path of 
Blood power, A Taste for Blood (Vampire: The Masquerade, 
pp. 178-179). No blood cost or roll is required; the vampire 
simply garners information as if with one success. You may 
still choose to use the Discipline itself in order to gain more 
specific information, in which case the normal systems apply 
and the results of the Discipline use supersede this affinity.
This affinity is not always beneficial — your character 
may accidentally taste undercurrents of fear, extraordinary 
power or poison in vitae, and such tastes can cause nausea or 
incapacitation at the Storyteller’s discretion. This sensitivity 
cannot be turned off.
MET System: You’ve got a natural instinct for the flavors 
in blood. When you taste blood, you can tell if the blood is 
from a vampire, and you can automatically taste its potence 
(generation). There is no test or cost. If the blood is not from 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
67
a vampire, you only know that — you cannot specifically 
tell Lupine or faerie blood from human blood without other 
testing methods.
Embraced Without the Cup 
(3-pt. Social Merit)
When your character was Embraced, her sire dispensed 
with Tremere tradition, or perhaps didn’t have the means 
necessary to finish the job, or just died before it could be done 
right. Your Tremere was drained of blood and then brought 
across, but never went through the Transubstantiation of 
Seven (see p. 61). As a result, even if your character took 
the oath, she didn’t undertake any steps toward a blood bond 
with the Council of Seven. Because your character has no 
imperative toward the Seven, her loyalty to the Tremere clan 
comes solely from her own conscience. Effectively, you can 
do as you damn well please without any unnatural feelings 
getting in the way.
Of course, if any loyal Tremere find out about this 
oversight, your character will probably wind up hauled in 
for the Transubstantiation of Seven, as well as some detailed 
questioning about why she didn’t come forward to fix this 
oversight of her own volition. This may result in a binding 
to the council, or a tribunal of some sort, and ignorance may 
not be a valid excuse.…
MET System: Without the Transubstantiation rite, you 
don’t have the usual ties to the Tremere Council of Seven, 
which means that your will is your own in matters pertaining 
to the Tremere clan. There’s no game-specific mechanic for 
this Merit. Just remember that you don’t need to make any 
tests or expenditures to go against normal Tremere policy; 
in effect, instead of having the normal Tremere clan disad-
vantage, your disadvantage is that you’ll find yourself under 
serious scrutiny should your deficiency come to light.
Bound to the Council (3-pt. Social 
Flaw)
Whether because of a highly suspicious regent, a faux 
pas in the past or a missive from on high, your character was 
bound to the Council of Seven — a condition that he hasn’t 
escaped. This doesn’t stop the character from having personal 
goals and motives, but love of the Tremere clan always comes 
first. You must spend Willpower just to go against Tremere 
policy; violating the oath, to your character, is literally as 
difficult as a blood bound thrall trying to betray her regnant. 
When the council or their duly-appointed representatives 
(read: anyone with more Tremere rank than your character) 
says, “Jump,” your character jumps, then waits around to find 
out how high before coming down.
If you somehow manage to get out of this problem, say 
by partaking of a Vaulderie, accepting another blood bond 
or using the ritual Abandon the Fetters (p. 67), your char-
acter may well find himself marked for destruction should 
the proper parties find out. If the blood bond wasn’t enough 
to keep him in line, and he was enough of a threat to merit 
it, then destruction is the only way to be sure that he won’t 
be a problem later. The Storyteller can and should use all 
Tremere resources available both to check the character’s 
loyalty and to hunt him down like the renegade he is if he 
fails to make the grade.
MET System: Whenever you want to do something 
that violates the commands of the Tremere hierarchy, you 
must expend a Willpower Trait. This Flaw keeps all the social 
ramifications listed previously — your actions will be highly 
constrained, you may be thrust into unpleasant situations 
against your will, and you’ll be in a world of hurt if you ever 
manage to get past the bond.
Double Betrayer (4-pt. Social Flaw)
At some point in the past, your character undertook the 
Vaulderie. She may have legitimately tried to join the Sab-
bat, or perhaps she didn’t know any better or was compelled. 
Regardless, she now bears the mark of the Betrayer. She has 
since been redeemed and welcomed back into the clan’s 
ranks, but the mark will haunt her always.
As usual with the mark, all Tremere can tell that your 
character betrayed the clan once. Those who know of your 
character’s past will treat her with contempt; add two to 
the social difficulties for interacting with other Tremere, so 
long as they’re loyal to the clan. Tremere who don’t know 
the circumstances will probably assume that your character 
is a Sabbat traitor, and might try to capture or destroy her, or 
at least attempt to inform the pyramid of her whereabouts. 
Should your character ever fail in her reports or relapse in 
bad behavior, you can expect that she will be hunted down 
just like the Tremere do with other threats.
MET System: You have the mark of the Betrayer — 
carry a card to indicate this to other Tremere. You are two 
Traits down on all Social challenges with other (non-Sabbat) 
Tremere. Because you’re an expatriate of the Sabbat, though, 
you don’t know enough up-to-date signs and codes to pass 
yourself off as a member. In short, you screwed up, and you’re 
going to pay for it forever.
Thaumaturgically Inept (5-pt. 
Supernatural Flaw)
Tremere and the council took decades to develop the 
principles of Thaumaturgy, so it’s not a “natural” Discipline. 
Over centuries it’s spread through the Tremere clan as a 
habitual practice, but a few unfortunate Tremere never seem 
to get the hang of it.
Your character is one such unfortunate: He effectively 
adds 4 instead of the normal 3 to his difficulties (to a 
maximum of 10) to use paths or rituals. He can still learn 
Thaumaturgy (higher-ranking Tremere will be happy to 
share their secrets so long as he earns the favor from them), 
but it takes real effort. Thaumaturgy still counts as a clan 
Discipline for him, though he can begin the story with no 
more than one dot.


Clanbook: Tremere
68
Socially, this tends to mark the character as a poor student 
among other Tremere. He will likely be passed over for promo-
tions or responsibilities simply because he “just doesn’t get it.”
MET System: Your character finds Thaumaturgy to be his 
worst subject. As a result, this adds one Trait to the difficulty of 
any Static Test, and adds five minutes to the casting time of any 
effect (because you’re fumbling with the words, you misdrew the 
circle, etc.). You are one Social Trait down on resolution of chal-
lenges when dealing with Tremere of higher ranks than yourself. 
Tremere Derangements
Of all the clans, the Tremere are the most universally steeped 
in mystic understanding. While Malkavians have a built-in 
perception of a broken universe, and Tzimisce have their own 
forms of sorcery, the Tremere’s very seat of power predicates 
upon symbolism, mystical links, symmetry and patterns of will. 
As Tremere students of the occult must pit their minds against 
unnatural forces and permutations of their own vampiric Curse, 
it’s no surprise that some levels of mental imbalance and afflic-
tion crop up among an unfortunate few, as well as those who 
repeatedly delve into mysteries best left unexplored.
Conservative Cainite scholars argue that the Curse encom-
passes only certain needs, and thus that some types of power fly 
in the face of what is “normal” for vampirism. Thaumaturgy is 
foremost on the lists of such reactionaries. While most Tremere 
scoff at this and merely assert that their formidable training 
and methods allow them to access powers that other Cainites 
simply haven’t the skill to use, some indications have arisen 
that thaumaturgical study can be rather unbalancing. Indeed, 
the very nature of Thaumaturgy — pitting one’s will against 
the curse of undeath to channel the power of blood into new 
forms — speaks of unwholesome investigation into the terrible 
malison that afflicts the Kindred. Some Tremere find the truths 
unearthed therein too terrible to confront rationally.
Hierarchical Sociology Disorder
Enforcement of the Tremere’s pyramid structure some-
times has negative effects. Strong-willed individuals are the 
ones most commonly Embraced by the Tremere, but the oc-
casional exception does slip through. Furthermore, centuries 
of practice in conditioning young neonates to their policies 
means that sometimes Tremere organizational practices are a 
little too effective.
Most Tremere have at least a marginal loyalty to the clan 
as an abstract whole, enforced both through the blood of the 
Seven and through the psychological conditioning of the 
oath administered during the turmoil just after the Embrace. 
Vampires who adjust comparatively well go on to normalize 
their personal drives with the problems of the undead condi-
tion. Those who can’t handle the stress, though, sometimes 
turn to the pyramid as a surrogate for responsibility.
A recent inductee who’s unable to cope with the stress 
of hunting for blood and dealing with the Beast may transfer 
such responsibility to the Tremere pyramid. In such cases the 
individual becomes almost dronelike; such victims cannot 
handle their own moral responsibility, so they delineate their 
world by the bounds of the Tremere code. What their superiors 
order, they obey; what the code prohibits, they fanatically 
shun. By making the Tremere clan the repository of their 
consciences, these poor souls are “only following orders.” 
The degradation of Humanity and the toll of frenzy, hunger 
and fear still drive the Kindred into a downward spiral, but 
it’s one that he can almost sociopathically ignore. After all, 
it’s neither his fault nor his problem.
Confronted with a choice, a victim of this disorder looks 
to the Tremere hierarchy for answers. Every action must be 
supported by the pyramid. Pressed for a personal opinion, the 
hapless vampire gives a pat answer or an uncomfortable “I don’t 
know.” Unsurprisingly, Tremere superiors are quick to weed out 
neophytes who succumb to this disorder — a drone without 
personal initiative or imagination is even more volatile than 
a revolutionary. Such individuals find themselves assigned to 
dangerous tasks where they’ll succeed with the clan’s interests 
in mind, die horribly or snap into a more rational state of mind.
Sanguinary Cryptophagy
Subsistence upon blood to the exclusion of normal foods is 
one of the first practical adjustments that vampires must make. 
Tremere have a particularly curious adjustment, fed as they are 
blood that transubstantiates into the vitae of the council, then 
trained in powers to examine the tastes of blood for its peculiar 
qualities. A few Tremere become enamored of the flavors in 
exotic blood. While it’s true that any vampire can develop a 
taste for certain pedigrees, so to speak, the common Tremere 
sensitivity to unusual currents — both through superlative 
sensation and thaumaturgical study — leads some Tremere 
to hunt down the most extraordinary bouquets that they can.
Naturally, some vampires move to rather exclusive tastes 
and learn the savory thrill of other Cainite blood. Tremere, often 
able to detect the subtleties of bloodlines or unique manifesta-
tions of the vampiric condition, may take this to extremes. A 
cryptophage becomes obsessed with the pursuit of more and 
different flavors of blood. Such individuals sometimes have a 
penchant for diablerie, becoming fixated on the tastes of various 
other clans. Stranger Tremere take to hunting the globe for 
“rare vintages” like Lupine or faerie blood. Unchecked, such 
an obsession throws the Tremere into dangerous situations 
as she hunts other supernatural creatures. Worse still, such 
Tremere often become bored with “lesser vintages.” Although 
still able to subsist upon human or animal blood (physically 
if not psychologically), cryptophages develop a distaste for 
such common fare. A cryptophage may even be incapable 
of swallowing such common blood without an effort of will. 
Again, note that cryptophagy is a psychological condition 
and not a physical dependency; a cryptophage still can (and 
will) drink any form of blood during a frenzy. In extreme cases 
this may be the only sustenance that the vampire gets; she 
becomes nervous and twitchy from hunger while she hunts 
supernatural creatures for their scarlet nectar. A cryptophage 
may even go to the lengths of exerting herself to expend 


Chapter Two: Inside the Pyramid
69
blood or draining her own veins in order to cause a greater 
appreciation for the rush and taste of unusual vitae.
Thaumaturgical Glossolalia
Language is a means to build common symbols for the 
description of concepts. Thaumaturgy recognizes this power; 
the voice alone is a potent tool, but so too are symbols. Indeed, 
skilled thamaturges learn to think in symbolic languages, much 
as a mathematician may construct complex explanations out 
of numbers. Some sorcerers theorize that thaumaturgical 
numerology functions because of its mystical tie to universal 
concepts. Just as mathematics describes the physical universe, 
Thaumaturgy describes the metaphysical. Because these 
symbols function on such an abstract level, though, they do 
not fit easily within the human   or undead   mind.
Highly proficient thaumaturges sometimes suffer a bizarre 
form of regression. A mind trained to examine the world 
in supernatural terms cannot always cope with stress in a 
rational manner. Under tension, such thaumaturges revert 
to speaking in tongues, but in this case, in thaumaturgical 
symbology. The affliction of glossolalia (speaking in tongues) 
comes hysterically upon these unfortunates and makes them 
incomprehensible.
While  normal  glossolalia involves speaking in dead 
tongues, a thaumaturge reverts to arcane constructs. Other 
thaumaturges may recognize scattered words, but often the 
mind of the individual seems to shift into a different state of 
thought   almost like magical aphasia. Oftentimes the subject 
reverts to words that he would not formally know or study. 
The thaumaturge in question rarely has any idea that he s 
doing anything unusual. His own mind still equates these 
concepts to the strange words, while conversely he becomes 
unable to translate more mundane language. Given enough 
time or concentration, the thaumaturge usually reverts to 
normal speech, with no real understanding of what he mysti-
cally said before.
Most Tremere would be mildly unnerved to see this de-
rangement in action; thaumaturges have displayed knowledge 
of concepts normally far beyond their skill while so possessed. 
Of course, a frenzied thaumaturge shouting out guttural 
invectives in some dead magical language would be enough 
to terrify almost anyone.
This is a difficult derangement to portray well, and Sto-
rytellers should not only be wary of assigning it too cavalierly, 
they may wish to offer additional experience points for players 
who handle it with grace. Evinced correctly, Thaumaturgical 
Glossolalia is not idiotic gibberish or childish babble   it is 
the transition of symbols to words by which a fractured mind 
communicates the horrors that have driven it to madness.


Clanbook: Tremere
70


Chapter Three: The Registry
71
Chapter Three: 
Stones of the 
Pyramid
Paradoxical as it may sound, every Tremere is distinctly 
unique. The image of the Tremere as a tightly bound hierarchy 
suggests itself to such a degree that the very foibles of each 
Tremere become the signs of individuality: “He’s a Tremere, 
but he doesn’t study Thaumaturgy.” “She’s a Tremere, but she 
runs with anarchs.” “They’re Tremere, but they’re surprisingly 
honest.” Any deviation from the stereotype simply highlights 
the Tremere’s personality. Although vampires might speak 
of the Tremere clan as a whole in broad, sweeping terms, no 
single vampire totally fits that profile. Indeed, the Tremere 
could not exist if they did all fit one stereotype; a gathering 
of identical drones is no more functional than a fractious 
rabble. Each Tremere contributes to the clan through his or 
her own special facilities.
What binds the Tremere more than any personality trait 
or supernatural union is their quest for advancement — of 
the self, of their rank in the hierarchy, of blood magic, un-
derstanding or power. Whether pushed to excel within the 
pyramid or forced to survive outside it, no Tremere can ever 
rest. Their world harbors little trust and no friendship. The 
entirety of their clan’s vaunted unity is one of convenience 
against outsiders too numerous and dangerous to ignore, 
a siege mentality adopted during their earliest nights of 
struggle against the established Kindred of Eastern Europe. 
Survival is a game of balancing the enemies without against 
the rivals within. Truly the Tremere keep their comrades 
close and their enemies closer. Given the clan’s (arguably 
deserved) reputation, a Tremere must be a font of self-reliance 
and constant desire for improvement; any weakness opens 
the door to destruction at the hands of suspicious Kindred, 
displeased superiors or ambitious subordinates.
Vampirism suited the Tremere as an end to power 
and immortality. The Camarilla serves as protection. The 
unity of clan facilitates the exchange of favors necessary to 
survive. Any Tremere only gets what she can take — their 
horror is a world where bonds of loyalty and trade are so 
ritualized, so formal and so artificial that there is no room for 
the real issue. The Tremere must be master lest she become 
someone’s slave.
A Quick Note About MET 
Conversions
You’ll note that these characters sometimes have 
third-level Disciplines, and that their MET conversions 
correspondingly have Intermediate Disciplines. But 
starting MET characters only get Basic Disciplines… 
so what gives? That’s up to you. You can decide to 
“drag and drop” any of these characters into use in a 
game; if used as Narrator characters they can just use 
whatever Traits you need anyhow. If you want to limit 
new players’ characters to the hard rules presented in 
Laws of the Night, just swap the Intermediate Disci-
pline for some other Basic clan Discipline.


Clanbook: Tremere
72
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Competitor
DEMEANOR: Conniver
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Security Consultant
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Resources
Auspex
Dominate
Security Consultant
Quote: We have ways to keep people out.
Prelude: Security guard? No, too mundane. Spy? Never 
— you wouldn’t betray confidences so lightly. But you solved 
puzzles well, you had a natural affinity for what made people 
tick, and you had the intuition to make connections based on 
pieces of the puzzle. Thus, you joined the Army and landed 
right where you wanted to be, in counterintelligence.
Four years of filing reports, collating photographs, per-
forming surveillance, studying foreign languages, learning 
interrogation and intrusion techniques, greasing a few palms 
(both foreign and domestic) and developing new ways to secure 
or defeat technological safeguards — quite a varied résumé. 
When a foreign power started acting a little bit grabby, you 
were there digging up information about their troops, their 
supply movements and their intent. You learned to 
spot lies well and to spin them better.
Once you completed your tour, you decided 
to take your skills to some private corporate se-
curity firms. Of course, while they interviewed 
you, you also interviewed them. You wrote off 
the ones with bad financial records, bad legal 
records, bad management and bad ideas. That 
left perhaps one or two firms… and one that had 
sent a representative once, but about which you 
hadn’t been able to dig up much at all.
The Tremere wanted a little 
private security consultation. 
Your own sleuthing dug 
up some spooky pho-
tographs of arcane 
Masonlike rites 
and a few relatively 
unknown people 
meeting with mov-
ers and shakers in 
local politics. At first 
you thought it was 
a cult. When you 
showed their rep the 
photographs, though, 
he just smiled and let 
you in on the real secret.
Welcome to the 
“company.”
Concept: After your 
life experiences, you devel-
oped the skills necessary to do 
some impressive intelligence 
work. Among the Tremere, that 
means digging up secrets, making 
backroom deals and undertaking “plausible de-
niability” jobs. Although in some ways you do 
grunt work, it’s important and highly special-
ized grunt work, so it guarantees that you 
can keep a low profile but still garner 
the backroom respect, accolades 
and favors of other Kin-
dred who must 
rely on 
such services.
Roleplaying Hints: A carefully 
crafted exterior hides your ticking, 
analytical mind. You posture yourself, 
speak and dress for maximum effect 
on your colleagues, and you take time 
to study situations into which you’ll 
go so that you can build an appropri-
ate façade. It’s almost like a game. 
And from the pieces you’ve found 
in the whispers of the secret Jyhad, 
it looks like the biggest thrill of all 
is coming with the endgame — you 
plan to be right there on the sidelines 
when it all happens.
Equipment: Lockpicks, fake iden-
tification, off-the-rack suit, microcamera


Chapter Three: The Registry
73
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Security Consultant
Tremere
11th
Competitor
Conniver
Auspex (Heightened Senses)
Dominate (Command, Mesmerism)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
Commanding x 2
Witty
Attentive
Alert x 2
Cunning x 2
Observant
Brawl
Firearms
Investigate
Brawny
Enduring
Energetic
Melee
Occult
Security
Contacts x 2
Generation x 2
Influence (Occult)
Resources x 3
Quick
Tough
Vigilant
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Diplomat
Tremere
12th
Architecht
Martyr
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception)
Dominate (Command)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
Diplomatic x 2
Elegant
Determined
Insightful
Knowledgeable
Patient
Acadenmics
Expression
Politics
Graceful
Steady
Tireless
Occult
Subterfuge x 2
Generation
Influence (Occult, Political)
Resources x 4
Vigilant
Eloquent x 2
Magnetic
Persuasive x 2


Clanbook: Tremere
74
Diplomat
Quote: You can see how this deal benefits us both.
Prelude: From award-winning high school debate teams to communications and language classes in college and finally to an 
administration degree, you excelled at the fine points of diplomacy. A cultured voice, the ability to empathize with anyone’s side 
and a keen study of motive all facilitated your great skill in etiquette and manipulation. People naturally liked you, and you milked 
that for all it was worth. You recognized early on that when a diplomat shows up to negotiate between two sides, the real prize is 
not in reaching the agreement, but rather in leading them to agree or disagree in the way that the diplomat wants. Thereafter, you 
studied acting and psychology, not only to mollify people, but also to be able to incite them in ways that you preferred.
Once you’d finished your MBA with studies in multiple languages and psychology, you started a silver-tongued climb to 
a comfortable lifestyle. At first it was corporate deal-making, but you set your ambitions for the UN. You’d shape global policy 
just for the thrill of it, and you’d be paid for the job. That is, until you were picked up by a pair of unsettling smooth-talkers 
who recognized ambition and talent, and decided that you’d work the night shift on their behalf.
Concept: Embraced before you could become an experienced (or burned-out) statesman, you landed 
in the world of Kindred politics with a better reference position than most neonates. You were quick to 
adjust and put your life behind you, since you had long ago learned to adapt to unusual cultures and 
customs. A combination of media savvy, smooth talk and quick wit serves to cement your useful-
ness to the elders, while you manage to redirect your peers at one another’s throats. Diplomacy is 
a weapon in its own right, and it can lay low the mightiest with a few chosen words in Elysium. 
With that weapon you plan to play the Kindred society’s games at your comfort and whim.
Roleplaying Hints: Although you’re somewhat arrogant, you’re affable and likable 
to people, despite your predatory nature. You naturally empathize with people, and though 
you clinically set their emotions to one side, you pretend to feel their position (or take an 
outrageously opposed stance when you want to incense someone). However, instead of working 
directly to advance your own agenda, you smoothly slide yourself in as the middleman 
between various aggrieved parties, and then “help” them agree to solutions favorable 
to you. You’re witty, urbane, friendly — and thoroughly selfish.
Equipment: Wardrobe by Mackie, PCS phone, German sedan, personal organizer
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Architecht
DEMEANOR: Martyr
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Diplomat
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Resources
Status
Auspex
Dominate


Chapter Three: The Registry
75
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Director
DEMEANOR: Caregiver
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Labor Union
Leader
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Contacts
Generation
Influence
Resources
Retainers
Dominate
Labor Union Leader
Quote: I just want what’s best for the men.
Prelude: Few people understand just how harsh it can 
be to grow up in lower-class urban squalor. With alcoholic 
parents, multiple siblings and limited opportunity, you had no 
choice but to face reality early. Nobody else would give you 
a better world, or even the chance for one, so you just had to 
take what you could find. That meant dropping out of high 
school so that you could take a factory job. Then you moved 
up to the shipyards. The general grind of life served as your 
education. Seedy bars, the occasional brawl, heavy machinery 
and Milwaukee’s Best filled your life and your foreseeable future.
As you worked the shipyards, you kept your mouth shut and 
your ears open. Drinking with the other laborers, you learned 
where the graft kept operations moving. The mandatory union 
membership and its attendant dues were clearly the way up 
for a working man, so you set yourself to climbing that ladder. 
Other labor leaders went before you, but you learned 
from their mistakes while quietly keeping your own 
counsel. Positioning yourself as a man of the common 
workers earned you their support, and your patience 
in watching before jumping meant that you knew 
what mistakes to avoid. Even when inevitable dis-
putes between management and labor loomed, you 
could force a resolution — you had the power of the 
workers behind you. Although it wasn’t a great life, you 
were determined to take the most from it.
Late-night labor negotia-
tions became a chore when 
you had to juggle special 
interests, local politicians 
hoping to use disputes as 
an issue, management 
demands and criminal in-
fluence all at once. Still, 
you ultimately had 
something that they 
all wanted, and you 
stood up to each side. 
Even the threat of 
violence didn’t budge 
you; you’d faced worse 
in the projects. Your 
impressive determination 
and organization attracted 
more and more attention, 
until it was made clear to you 
that you’d be working graveyard 
forever. After all, anyone as self-
motivated as you could learn what the 
Tremere needed, but your sheer dogged 
willpower was a real asset.
Concept: Having clawed your way 
out of the gutter, you’ve just wound up 
on the bottom of yet another heap. 
It’s an uphill struggle once more, but 
at least you have the time to make it all the way. All 
you have to do is make sure that you don’t cross 
one of the odd rules of behavior, 
because there’s no room for 
mistakes.
Roleplaying Hints: 
Although you are not 
well-educated or terribly 
well-spoken, you at least 
realize your shortcomings, 
so you don’t speak much. 
This often lulls people 
into thinking that you’re 
stupid. When you nego-
tiate, you do so out of 
collectivism. So long as 
you have a group in your 
corner with an asset that 
nobody else has, you have a 
position of strength. From time 
to time you can be subtle, but 
usually you don’t bother; you 
just let people assume that 
you’re a mook, then you crush them 
with the weight of your authority, 
your backing and your dedication.
Equipment: Briefcase, snub 
revolver, factory schematics, little 
black book with phone numbers of 
local politicians and criminal leaders


Clanbook: Tremere
76
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Labor Union Leader
Tremere
12th
Director
Caregiver
Dominate (Command, Mesmerism,
Forgetful mind)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified
Expressive
Friendly
Attentive
Determined
Shrewd
Brawl
Intimidation
Politics
Agile
Resilient
Stalwart
Security
Occult
Streetwise
Allies x 3
Contacts x 3
Generation
Influence (Industry x 3 Occult)
Genial
Ingratiating x 2
Intimidating
Tenatious
Tough
Resources x 3
Retainers x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Crowley
Tremere
13th
Deviant
Monster
Dominate (Command, Mesmerism)
Thaumaturgy (Path of Blood– A Taste 
for Blood, Blood Rage, Blood of Potency)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Charming
Magnetic
Clever
Creative
Discerning
Insightful
Academics
Medicine
Performance
Enduring
Nimble
Steady
Occult x 2
Science (Chemistry)
Fame
Herd x 3
Influence ( Occult)
Resources x 2
Tenatious
Wiry
Knowledge x 2
Wily


Chapter Three: The Registry
77
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Deviant
DEMEANOR: Monster
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Crowley
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Fame
Herd
Resources
Dominate
Thaumaturgy
Crowley
Quote: I will shatter your comfortable illusions.
Prelude: Down with authority! Fuck the rules! Jack up 
on a shitload of chemicals and screw some animals! Blame 
it on distant parents, warped society, your own screwed-up 
psyche, a need for attention or just plain boredom. Whatever 
the case, you dabbled in drugs, Satanism, fetish sex, coun-
terculture — anything to freak the mundanes.
Although you went to school and an endless parade 
of therapists, you never outgrew your obsession of screwing 
with people’s heads. A little high-school arson and “blacke 
magick” attracted the requisite disapproval, and you decided 
to make bigger ratings. When your peers enrolled in college, 
you sold them acid and played around with animal sacrifices 
and personal scarification. The midnight slot on public-access 
cable became home for your deranged rantings and antics. 
You attracted a small following of cultish masochists, freaks 
and malcontents, and you happily abused them all.
As you aged, you became more jaded and cynical, your 
turns of mood more brutal. The march of mortality 
brought difficulty to your tirades; you turned 
from a juvenile prankster to a truly per-
verse sociopath. Indeed, you delved into 
the occult out of a sense of bleakness, 
a need to refute the sensible world and 
knee-jerk antiauthoritarianism. The 
joke became stale, and you started to rot.
Still, once you finally broke down 
the puerile boundaries of simple shock-
culture, you opened the door to truly horrific 
discoveries. Somewhere along the 
line your witchcraft took on pur-
pose. Your actions, though still 
geared to shock and desensitize, 
served some deeper pattern 
glimpsed in the chaos of occult 
paraphernalia. Having once 
glimpsed that pattern, you 
couldn’t go back. Eventually 
your antics became serious 
enough to attract equally 
serious attention.
Concept: “Nor-
mal” human life passed 
by long ago. These 
nights, you zigzag be-
tween trying to find 
some stable point of 
 order, and indulging 
the violence of your 
morbid Curse. You 
don’t fit in with anyone, and you’ll probably never amount 
to much of anything. The most absurd aspect of this ex-
istence, of course, is that you finally have real power, but 
you’ve so heavily shoved yourself into your elders’ hierarchy 
that you may never manage to make real use of it.
Roleplaying Hints: As long as 
you can provoke the people around 
you, you’re perversely pleased. 
However, you feel a need not only 
to piss people off, but to degrade 
yourself in the process. Thus, you 
engage in all manner of rude and 
shocking behavior, but it’s as 
often directed at yourself as 
at others. Fortunately, you 
know just enough to toe the 
line of authority.
Equipment: Knife, 
wand, cheap Tarot cards, 
excessive B&D para-
phernalia


Clanbook: Tremere
78
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Child
DEMEANOR: Survivor
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Anarch 
Thaumaturge
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Herd
Resources
Auspex
Thaumaturgy
Anarch Thaumaturge
Quote: You’ll find that my talents are not easy to come by 
in these circumstances.
Prelude: You’ve always had a real problem with authority. 
It comes with genius, they say, but so does a little instability. 
Brilliant but undisciplined, you scored off the scale on stan-
dardized tests, yet you could never apply yourself to a project 
long enough to satisfy the demands of the rigid, stultifying 
academic world.
Directionless, you drifted 
through school and past frustrated 
parents and teachers alike. Mag-
net classes were under-funded 
and out of the question with 
two working-class parents. 
Counselors didn’t know what to 
do with you. Eventually you tired of 
the placidity in educational circles. 
Teachers seemed baffled by you and 
sent you on your way.
Success in the outside world proved 
difficult without a strong direc-
tion. You flitted from place to 
place and job to job. In the 
end your jack-of-all-trades 
experience attracted the 
wrong sort of attention. 
You managed to draw no-
tice for your proficiency, 
but when you were Em-
braced, the monsters 
made it clear in no 
uncertain terms that 
your agitprop ten-
dencies would not be 
tolerated. Despite the 
education and intel-
ligence behind your 
arguments, you 
were expected to 
stay in line.
The hell with that. 
One night, you packed up 
and left for free territory, 
the better to pursue your 
own ambitions, like getting 
the hell away from the elders 
who used you as a scapegoat 
and expected you to swallow 
it for the next three centu-
ries. As a recent convert with 
limited skills, you didn’t see yourself as worth the 
clan’s time to hunt down, but if you become a 
little too important they may “invite” you back 
into the fold rather forcefully.…
Concept: Having broken with traditional 
Tremere ranks, your only route to survival and 
advancement is by making a niche for yourself 
with your specialized skills. You pander your 
magical prowess with all the insistence of a 
jaded street hustler, knowing full well that it’s 
simultaneously paltry and your only real ticket 
to survival. To get ahead, you’ll have to sharpen 
your skills and become indispensable, while at 
the same time seeming harmless to the rest of 
the Tremere — no easy feat.
Roleplaying Hints: Skittish, paranoid and 
fearful, you have to stay three steps ahead of rival 
Tremere and two steps ahead of everyone else. 
A little cultivated mystery makes you seem more 
knowledgeable and dangerous than you really are. 
However, when things come down to the wire, your 
desperation shines through.
Equipment: Scattered occult notes, politi-
cal tracts, beat-up Hyundai


Chapter Three: The Registry
79
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Anarch Thaumaturge
Tremere
12th
Child
Survivor
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
Aura perception)
Thaumaturgy (Path of Blood– A Taste 
for Blood, Blood Rage)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Empathetic
Friendly x 2
Dedicated
Disciplined x 2
Intuitive
Knowledgable
Computer
Investigation
Occult x 2
Dexterous
Quick
Resilient
Streetwise
Survival
Contacts x 2
Generation
Herd
Influence (Occult)
Vigilant
Wily
Genial
Resources
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Pyramid Fanatic
Tremere
13th
Fanatic
Conformist
Auspex (Heightened Senses)
Dominate (Command)
Thaumaturgy (Path of Blood– A Taste 
for Blood, Blood Rage)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding x 2
Dignified
Diplomatic
Discerning
Disciplined
Observant x 2
Knowledgeable x 2
Academics
Etiquette
Finance
Quick
Tough
Vigorous
Occult x 2
Politics
Allies x 2
Influence (Occult)
Mentor
Resources x 3
Patient
Shrewd
Persuasive


Clanbook: Tremere
80
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Fanatic
DEMEANOR: Conformist
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Pyramid Fanatic
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Clan Prestige
Resources
Status
Auspex
Dominate
Thaumaturgy
Pyramid Fanatic
Quote: To serve house and clan.
Prelude: You’ve always been a follower, but with a 
peculiar talent: you could see which way the wind blew, and 
so you always managed to choose the right side. Although 
some people would vilify you as a toady, a suck-up or a sheep, 
you survived and were the one laughing when they eventu-
ally wound up supporting the wrong player. You backed up 
a business deal that promised to make a tidy sum by landing 
a communications contract for the services of a utility 
company. Your detractors claimed that vendors would 
be late, that the company would sandbag the payment, 
and that their own contractors could do the job more 
cheaply. Your dogged support of your boss’ record for 
reliability helped to land the $1.2 million contract, 
at which point your company bought out the rival 
and you fired all of their happy asses.
Although not particularly talented or well-educated, 
you managed to score some reasonable job security through 
your craven office politics. You even kept a notebook 
detailing the personal preferences and pet peeves of your 
superiors. Middle management suited your style and kept you 
busy. Perhaps it was organizational efficiency, or maybe it was 
someone noticing your pattern of success; you were snatched 
up for the Tremere clan with a minimum of fuss.
As a Kindred, you quickly oriented yourself and figured out 
some of the power structures around you. Clearly, 
the Tremere occupied a winning position. You 
settled into your usual sycophancy, and before long found 
yourself well compensated for your loyalties. True innovation 
isn’t your style, so you won’t necessarily shoot up the ranks, 
but slow and steady wins the race. Especially when it’s steady 
for hundreds of years.
Concept: You have few convictions of your own, so you 
always back someone strong. Right now your loyalties lie with 
the Tremere clan, so you parrot the oath and you’re quick to 
observe the policies handed down from on high. Such loyalty 
does garner benefits, but it also earns some snide 
commentary and a few looks askance from 
elders who wonder what your real “dodge” 
is. Your dodge, of course, is self-interest, 
but you let other people do the work and 
take the risks. 
Roleplaying Hints: Pick out snip-
pets of the Tremere Oath and use them 
to reinforce your position. Ultimately, you’ll 
be proven right, and you have faith that 
you’ll come out on top. Thus, you are 
at once sniveling and obnoxiously 
overconfident, because you 
toady to your superiors 
but are totally certain 
of your correctness.
This can be 
a difficult char-
acter to play, 
because it’s a 
bit of a stretch 
to balance the 
character’s one-
dimensional 
nature with, well, 
a fun chronicle. 
Such a character 
works best in a 
supporting role 
to another play-
er with a strong 
concept. It’s also 
a simple role for a 
new player to try.
Equipment: 
Signet ring, tra-
ditional occult 
robes, simple 
suits and 
sportswear


Chapter Three: The Registry
81
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Celebrant
DEMEANOR: Traditionalist
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 8th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Cloistered 
Researcher
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Auspex
Thaumaturgy
Cloistered Researcher
Quote: I have found some fascinating parallels between this problem 
and one that I’ve studied recently. Allow me to consult my books.…
Prelude: Turn-of-the-century occultism occupied your fever-
ish mind. While more sensible people went about their mundane 
lives, you sought every inexplicable mystery of the world. Certain 
that the world was headed for a collision with some terrible fate, 
you carefully invested your money in obscure schemes and mystic 
trappings — you purchased maps showing how the world would 
look after the inevitable cataclysm, invested in gemcutting tools, 
bought special spectrometers to detect spirits, and filled your library 
with tomes purporting to hold magical secrets of conspiratorial 
societies long presumed dead, like the Templars and the Order of 
the Golden Dawn. Friends and family fell by the wayside, to be 
replaced with anonymous correspondents and co-conspirators. 
The Wirtanen comet, ancient astronaut visits to the Mayans and 
the suppressed Manichaeist heresy were your meat and drink. By 
steps you became more and more obsessed with such hidden lore, 
and more withdrawn from human normalcy.
Carefully hoarding your remaining assets, you set out on 
a trip around the world. While other travelers went to the 
Louvre and the Parthenon, you headed off the beaten 
path to explore the Pflixbourg dungeons and the 
catacombs of Mithraic cultists. You were sure that 
you could find clues out there somewhere to a 
great conspiracy, to a pattern in civilization that 
pointed to the coming end. The ancients knew 
about it; modern governments hid and denied it 
because they feared the liberating knowledge of 
imminent destruction.
Eventually, climbing the Andean ruins 
following a lead on a Incan mummifi-
cation chamber, you met someone 
else who shared many of your ideas 
— someone with whom you’d 
corresponded previously. After 
sharing several theories about 
subterranean Sino-Tibetan 
monasteries, you became initi-
ated into one of the real groups 
that knew how to put the 
puzzle pieces together. From 
there, you continued your 
quest to discover the secrets 
leading to the close of the 
age. You’re sure that all of 
it ties together, and when 
Venus’ climax heralds 
the ascension of the final 
soul, the answers should 
become clear, however 
terrible they may be.
Concept: Al-
though you spend much 
of your time sequestered 
in a library where you 
can unearth odd bits of knowledge, you venture forth 
occasionally for the needs of other researchers or 
drawn by the lure of hidden lore. A lateral thinker in 
the extreme, you hold to a sort of opposite of Occam’s 
Razor: the simple explanation can usually be superseded by 
a more complex, conspiratorial one. You never miss the 
small stuff, and long years of research work mean 
that you know how to put together 
cryptic clues to form a whole picture.
Roleplaying Hints: Often, 
you forget that other people may 
not be as enlightened as you 
are, so you have a tendency to 
get bogged down in vocabulary 
that nobody else understands. 
You can be snapped out with an 
admonishment to keep things 
current, but your mind really 
runs on two levels; you seem 
distracted because you’re always 
cataloging events around you just 
in case some little detail points 
to a larger secret. If anyone else 
ever manages to comprehend your 
theory, you become excited and 
animated, and you could even miss 
the sunrise with your enthusiasm.
Equipment: Satchel full of 
obscure historical books, master 
keys to city libraries, journal of 
personal theories


Clanbook: Tremere
82
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Cloistered Resercher
Tremere
8th
Celebrant
Traditionalist
Auspex (Heightened Senses, 
Aura Perception)
Thaumaturgy (Path of Blood– A Taste 
for Blood, Blood Rage,Blood of Potency)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Diplomatic
Expressive x 2
Disciplined
Insightful
Knowledgeable x 3
Academics
Computer
Linguistis (Latin, Hebrew)
Agile 
Gracefull
Tireless
Etiquette
Occult x 2
Generation x 5
Influence (Occult)
Patient
Wise
Wiry x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Nightclub Owner
Tremere
13th
Rogue
Bon Vivant
Dominate (Command, Mesmerism)
Thaumaturgy (Path of Blood–
 A Taste  for Blood)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming x 2
Eloquent
Empathetic
Attentive
Determined
Observant x 2
Drive
Expression
Finance
Energetic
Robust
Stalwart
Occult
Streetwise
Subterfuge
Allies x 2
Contacts x 4
Fame x 1
Influence (Occult)
Tireless x 2
Ingratiating
Magnetic x 2
Herd x 4


Chapter Three: The Registry
83
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Rogue
DEMEANOR: Bon Vivant
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Nightclub Owner
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Contacts
Fame
Herd
Resources
Retainers
Dominate
Thaumaturgy
Nightclub Owner
Quote: Everyone who is anyone comes here, eventually. Just 
wait. The night is young.
Prelude: Some might have called you a shiftless layabout. 
However, you considered sybaritic luxury a privilege of the times. 
After all, what good was it to live in the modern age if you didn’t 
take advantage of all that it had to offer?
Despite your penchant for comfort, you really knew how to draw a 
crowd. Whenever you decided to have a good time, you brought other 
people along for the ride. This wasn’t so much an organizational skill 
as a natural talent for drawing out ideas that people just found cool 
and entertaining. Every time some new fashion became a trend, you 
managed to hit it first. When you visited the night scene, you took 
risks. The pants made of boiled leather with inch-wide rivets made 
quite a splash, and your follow-up of neon tape accentuating your 
manhood on a classic suit managed to tread the line between tacky 
and cutting edge. Eventually, a few of your associates who accompa-
nied you on your debauches decided to put up some real money to see 
what you could accomplish. Your first club opening landed right in the 
midst of a dying darkwave scene, and catered exclusively to 
that subset without diluting; your clients, though few in 
number, proved extremely loyal. Instead of trying for 
a bigger market share, you focused on providing the 
best experience for your small segment of the market, 
which led to a highly specialized clientele.
Your nightclub lit up the local scene. People 
flocked to your ideals of decadent splendor. You 
rubbed shoulders with the élite, kept a few secrets 
for the jaded wealthy to satisfy their perverse 
tastes, and really learned to put on a show. Your 
desire to keep things running smoothly and pleas-
antly, combined with your devotion to making 
sure that the endeavor was first and foremost 
about having a good time, kept people loyal 
and focused.
You kept re-
inventing your place 
to retain a fresh, 
trendy approach 
— the Goth club 
became a fetish bar, 
which became a 
rave venue, and 
who knows what 
next? Contin-
ued success 
brought you 
wealth and the 
stream of casual 
acquaintances and rumor mills that 
turned you into someone “in the know.” In 
the end, you became the supreme facilitator: Even 
if you didn’t have immediate access to the drugs, 
the information or the powerbrokers, you could find 
someone who did. However, just as you had learned 
to exploit it for connections among the clientele, 
someone decided to exploit you for those same ties.
Concept: In other circumstances you might 
not have been a Tremere. The clan only receives 
lip service from you, and the hierarchy isn’t your big 
motivator. Still, you do useful work. You keep an ear to the 
ground, and you fit in acceptably with other Kindred 
who are used to the Tremere as stuffy and 
tasteless. You’re just starting to learn to 
use your club as a resource more than 
as an outlet for your tastes, and you’re 
considering starting up a sub-venture 
to pander to some of the more jaded 
desires of the Kindred elders.
Roleplaying Hints: 
Casual and relaxed, you 
exude an atmosphere of 
sensuality. You make other 
people feel at ease, too, 
and facilitate their own 
pleasures, so they’re liable to be well-
disposed to you. A social chameleon, you 
know how to blend in to most situations 
while retaining your aplomb. Very little 
distracts you or brings you down from your 
euphoric binges other than the direct 
threat of violence. You just keep calm 
and project a sense that you’re enjoying 
yourself wherever you go. Of course, 
never lose sight of the fact that these 
connections are there to advance your 
own interests (and, sometimes, the 
clan’s, if it’s worth the bother).
Equipment: Custom lighter, 
clove cigarettes, evening clubwear


Clanbook: Tremere
84
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conniver
DEMEANOR: Judge
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 10th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Medical Examiner
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Resources
Status
Dominate
Thaumaturgy
Medical Examiner
Quote: Totally exsanguinated, you say? Probably that hemato-
degrading bacterium that’s cropped up — the one that originated in 
Australia. Certainly nothing special.
Prelude: For a time you harbored all the big dreams: the 
posting at a prestigious hospital, a few revolutionary papers, an 
experimental medical technique and a heroic reception as the 
doctor who cured HIV, defeated epilepsy or perfected organ clon-
ing. Certainly your excellent track record presaged great things. 
“Excellent technique,” your contemporaries said. “Phenomenal 
memory,” the professors added. “Real dedication to medicine,” the 
medical doctors reported. You were so determined to succeed that 
you flung yourself into residency and internship with a neurotic 
need for approval, a second job and an amphetamine habit.
A combination of stress, academic competition and lack of a 
fulfilling social life led quite naturally to a breakdown. You 
collapsed — two months later, you lost it completely in 
the hospital. After that, you retained your talent, but 
many of your old acquaintances dropped by the wayside; 
they told you that you’d changed. Your psychiatrist 
explained that psychotic and neurotic breaks often 
meant a fundamental shift of personality, even as he 
prescribed some preventative medication and therapy. 
With time you managed to acclimatize yourself to work 
once more, but your perspective changed; instead of the 
self-punishing, idealistic young medical student, 
you matured into a world-weary doctor 
who’d seen too many deaths, starting with 
your own conscience.
Let other doctors make the big 
discoveries — you’d had enough. In 
one of  the downtown precincts, you 
secured a position as a medical exam-
iner. Not exactly rewarding work, but 
not too stressful or difficult. You just 
tagged and bagged the bodies. Here 
and there you fudged a report when 
an overzealous cop went a little too 
far with a perp, or when the mayor’s 
office didn’t want an investigation into 
a suspicious death. (The “clear suicide” rul-
ing for 38 torso stab wounds was perhaps 
the most absurd, but pressure from the DA 
to wrap up the case quickly meant that you never 
made it to the stand.)
After a few years at your position, you started 
to notice trends in the city’s deaths. Hot summers 
meant more murders, of course, and suicides shot 
up in April and in December. But to you, the city 
almost seemed a predator in itself, killing off its 
own inhabitants and sending them to you with 
morbid glee. One exsanguinated body, you chalked 
up to the bizarre quotient. Two, you made some 
notes and asked a few questions of the investi-
gating officers. Three, and you tumbled to the 
predators and murderers that your work had just 
uncovered. Of course, the Masquerade couldn’t 
bear your scrutiny. If you died, another M.E. 
would just replace you, so instead you wound 
up with nights at the morgue. Now you cover 
for the occasional sloppy eater, bank some 
blood, collect a boon and dispose of evidence.
Concept: Night work at the morgue 
means that you don’t have to answer ques-
tions about your schedule. People expect 
a cadaverous appearance, so your Kindred 
nature doesn’t raise too many suspicions. 
Overall, you command a phenomenal 
amount of behind-the-scenes respect in 
Kindred society. You can make or break 
the Masquerade, dry up or swell blood 
supplies, and push or suppress police 
investigations with your reports on causes 
of death. Naturally, other Tremere expect 
you to use these assets in their favor, but 
you can get away with demanding the 
occasional return — such is the benefit 
of having clout.
Roleplaying Hints: Working with 
dead bodies — especially since you’re 
one of them yourself — takes its toll 
on your personality, and you have a 
morbid sense of humor and a grating 
bluntness. Once people get past this 
gruesome exterior, you’re not that bad, 
aside from the blood-drinking and the 
fudging of paperwork on behalf of mur-
derers and — oh, screw it, you’re a jerk.
Equipment: Portable computer, 
surgical tools, M.E. license, blank death 
certificates


Chapter Three: The Registry
85
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Medical Examiner
Tremere
10th
Conniver
Judge
Dominate (Command, Mesmerism,
 Forgetful Mind)
Thaumaturgy (Path of Blood–
 A Taste  for Blood)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling x 2
Diplomatic
Expressive
Attentive x 2
Dedicated
Insightful
Intuitive
Academics
Computer
Investigation
Dexterous
Enduring
Lithe
Medicine
Occult
Science (Forensics)
Contacts x 2
Generation x 3
Influence (Health, Occult)
Resources x 3
Witty
Knowledgeable
Vigilant
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION

SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT

COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE

BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD


WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER


BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Refugee-Turned-Scourge
Tremere
11th
Survivor
Bravo
Auspex (Heightened Senses, 
Aura Perception)
Thaumaturgy (Path of Blood–
 A Taste  for Blood)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY

PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic x 2
Commanding
Intimidating x 2
Attentive
Vigilant
 Wily
Animal Ken
Athletics
Brawl
Brawny
Ferocious
Quick x 2
Drive
Intimidation
Occult
Contacts x 1
Generation x 2
Influence (Occult, Health)
Mentor x 1
Tenacious
Tireless x 2


Clanbook: Tremere
86
Refugee-Turned-Scourge
Quote: Los manos aqui, dumbass.
Prelude: Outside the comfortable apartment complexes and 
grocery-store neighborhoods of the First World are parts of town 
where electricity’s a luxury and famine remains endemic. Into just 
such squalid circumstances were you born, one of the many dregs 
of East Los Angeles, beset by poverty and mischance. Five brothers 
and two sisters accompanied you in misery. Without prospects, you 
simply kicked and bit your way to survival. In the decrepit streets 
you could see the life you wanted: food, shelter, lovers and prestige. 
With your siblings you stole, begged and prostituted yourself to 
eke out petty change, a used shirt, a Quarter Pounder. In addition 
to spite, you had a singular low cunning and tenacity. In your late 
adolescence, seeing an opportunity, you mugged some suburban 
fuckhead who was trying to slum and left him unconscious in 
the alley; with his money and wardrobe you secured a few days of 
leisure. Instead of resting on your ill-gotten wealth, though, you 
used this as a step up. A contact in Tijuana set you up with runners 
who smuggled immigrants across the border in stolen trucks, and 
you bought a hot truck with the money you stole. A week after 
that, you had dragged your first mules into the United States, and 
they vanished into the slums of the maquiladoras and border towns.
Perhaps it was your dogged will to survive — you’ll never 
know; your sire didn’t make it through the rest of the night. Having 
managed to eke out a living through theft and robbery, you ran 
afoul of a nasty altercation between alien-smuggling Kindred and 
the INS. Caught at the wheel of your unregistered pickup, you 
beat one of the agents to death and were caught 
up by a laughing Tremere who punished your 
temerity with the Embrace. Unfortunately, 
shortly after your Embrace and conversion, 
you and your sire were set upon by the police. 
While your sire fought, you fled. You kept 
running until you escaped to another town 
where you could blend in unknown.
After an introduction to your new Kindred 
home, you managed to avoid the fatal missteps 
— you didn’t have any progeny of your own, 
nor did you trust anyone enough 
to sire any. Indeed, you made 
a show of nominal support to 
your prince’s tastes and found 
yourself finally with the 
beginnings of political 
clout. You’ve got a lot 
more to learn about 
Kindred — you only 
have the vaguest 
grasp on Kindred 
history and sects 
— but you like the 
authority engendered 
with your new position. 
With all this time on your 
hands, you might even pursue 
something resembling an educa-
tion. In the meantime, your 
street-honed instincts make 
you a dangerous fighter, and 
you play prestation not out of 
ego or boredom but simply to survive. You haven’t offended any 
important Tremere, and your skills help in hunting down Kindred 
who’ve annoyed the prince, so your position seems well-set.
Concept: Your ties to the Tremere clan extend about as far 
as blood, and that’s it. Having survived the worst that poverty 
has to offer, you’ve become adept at scrounging, securing shelter 
and avoiding authorities, all of which have stood you in good 
stead. Because you’ll break legs at a word, the prince keeps you 
around as scourge; in the meantime, you abuse the position 
to intimidate other Kindred.
Roleplaying Hints: The strong receive your 
service in exchange for the things they pro-
vide. The prince gives you authority and 
respect, and also gives you money and 
clothing, so you’ll keep working for 
him. Having existed for so long 
with the finer aspects of life 
just out of reach, you’re eager 
to taste comfortable un-
living. Unfortunately, 
your powers alone won’t 
assure that, and you’re 
slowly learning to use 
your undereducated mind. 
As a result, you still tend to 
speak in your broken slang; you 
use this as a ruse to make others think 
that you’re stupid. 
Equipment: Secondhand sport coat that’s 
a little too small, truncheon, greasy wad of small-
denomination bills
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Survivor
DEMEANOR: Bravo
CLAN: Tremere
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Refugee-Turned-Scourge
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Mentor
Status
Auspex
Dominate
Thaumaturgy


Chapter Three: The Registry
87
Sample Coterie: 
Secondary Sources
Of all the clans, the Tremere are arguably the most likely 
to bring an organized approach to a problem. When something 
unusual or difficult crops up, it’s only a matter of time before 
a message wends its way through the Tremere network, and 
eventually something comes back down. Should the Tremere 
be at a loss to explain a situation, they fall back on one of 
their formidable assets: their ability to efficiently and ruth-
lessly tear a problem down to its fundamental elements and 
study it with a rigor practiced by no other clan.
The Secondary Sources coterie is one such task group. 
When a Tremere sends word that a situation escapes his 
knowledge, he often finds clanmates willing to share their 
hoarded wisdom for a price. Should a problem fall far outside 
the scope of Tremere research, or pose enough of a threat to 
merit direct attention from the clan in an organized fashion, 
a specialized coterie may intervene — at an appropriately 
high cost in favors, boons and exchanged lore. In such a 
situation, the Tremere clan calls upon its loyal childer to 
piece together the source of the mystery, so that they can deal 
with the cause instead of the symptoms. If a ghost haunts an 
area, or an apprentice unearths a mystic artifact, the answer 
is simple: allocate the resources necessary to deal with the 
specific incident. If the problem escapes analysis, though, it’s 
time to send in a team that can codify the patterns, hit the 
books and figure out what the heck is going on.
Storytellers can use Secondary Sources as a group that 
shows up to highlight some local plot in their own chronicles, 
or as a background element for a player’s character. Perhaps 
one of your group’s Tremere worked with (or in) the coterie in 
the past, or maybe a non-Tremere vampire dealt with some of 
them in a shared-knowledge situation. Because the Secondary 
Sources coterie can take assignments just about anywhere, 
and can travel of its own volition when not “on duty,” they 
could show up in just about any chronicle as you desire.
Using Secondary Sources
The Secondary Sources coterie serves as a useful aside for 
a chronicle, especially if the players are just learning of the 
Tremere’s unnatural society. Although they’re unlikely to be 
direct antagonists, they could contest the group for some bit 
of knowledge, perform cover-ups or share information with 
the players’ characters. The characters may have to cut a deal 
The All-Tremere Chronicle
Of special note to players and Storytellers alike is the possibility of the all-Tremere chronicle. While some stories could focus 
on a brood that’s all from the same clan due to a shared lineage, the Tremere are more likely to deliberately form all-Tremere 
coteries for specific capabilities. Because of the hierarchical dynamic of the Tremere clan, telling an all-Tremere story demands 
that the players be able to put aside some of their notions of “fair” or “balanced.” Someone’s going to outrank someone else, 
and it probably won’t be all on the basis of who’s nice or competent. That means that the players need to be comfortable with 
the backstabbing, manipulative hell that characterizes the Tremere pyramid.
The first option is, as possible with any clan, the brood option: most of the Tremere in the group come from one sire, 
possibly even one of the players’ characters. With a shared lineage, the Tremere have some degree of double loyalty to both 
clan and creator. The brood itself will, of course, draw rank from the rest of the Tremere organization, and the ranks may not 
be even across the board; based on the brood’s dynamic, though, personal relationships will probably take precedence. Even if 
one brood member is promoted to a position of authority, he may well follow the guidance of a blood-sibling who’s always been 
there to advise him. Broods of this sort almost inevitably break apart under the Tremere hierarchy, as loyalty to the brood could 
become dangerous in superseding responsibilities owed to the hierarchy. How such a break-up happens, though, is a matter 
to Storytell — let the characters struggle with their conflicting duties, their allegiances (or poisonous hatreds reminiscent of 
an abusive family), their need to acknowledge the demands of the hierarchy versus their personal attachments and familiarity 
with the brood. Invariably, someone will falter and sell out the brood, or else the whole brood will go down — either way, it’s 
a story of the desperation of family against political agenda, and a great way to play up the grind of Humanity versus necessity.
The uniquely Tremere option for a one-clan game is in the chantry. As Tremere neonates travel around the globe, the 
hierarchy may see fit to temporarily build a coterie for its own purposes. Most often, the members aren’t fully aware of what 
they’re doing. They know only that they have certain responsibilities and that they’re working with other people hand-picked 
by their superiors. Often, such a situation pits neophytes against others with wildly different personalities and divergent interests; 
a wealth of options succeed where overspecialization fails. Of course, this may mean that the Tremere test each other’s patience 
and have difficulty relating besides their common link to the clan (another way to solidify clan loyalty over any outside con-
sideration, by making anyone who doesn’t toe the clan line feel like an outsider). While a few might want to trade knowledge, 
most will hone their special skills so that they remain useful — each one wants to appear valuable and competent in order to 
reap the benefits of the hierarchy. If one Tremere rocks the boat or rejects the pyramid, then everyone in the chantry suffers, 
so collective punishment comes into force, too. The players can examine how total strangers reconcile their wildly different 
unlife styles, explore morality as it erodes in conflicts for petty politics, even try to reconcile their differences to form a unified 
chantry — though that last option may be a bit much to ask of bloodsucking monsters out for personal gain.


Clanbook: Tremere
88
to have specialized research work done, or they could try to 
beat the coterie to the acquisition of some mystic lore or 
artifact. Because it moves from place to place to follow lucra-
tive opportunities and is rarely involved directly in politics, 
the coterie makes a perfect sideline. The group might even 
demand prestation of the characters in exchange for some 
aid, only to show up later at an inopportune time. Sabbat 
vampires could try to track down the coterie and capture it 
or steal its secrets.
Note that the Secondary Sources Tremere are research-
ers; they aren’t stupid. They don’t go out of their way to 
alienate other Kindred, and they’re cautious in their dealings 
with unknown quantities. Conversely, because they excel at 
research and blood magic, they can quickly dig up dirt on 
nearly anyone. If the players’ Cainites become a nuisance 
to the group, the characters could find themselves subject 
to blackmail or specialized tactics. Kindred with unique 
knowledge may even find themselves approached by the 
Secondary Sources for the purpose of trade.
A group that tends to shoot first and ask questions later 
will likely never see the Secondary Sources — the research-
ers know enough to stay well away from such brutes. More 
scholastic sorts will face stiff competition, because the coterie’s 
efficient resources allow it to function as a pooled network. 
Sociable Kindred have the most to gain by interacting with 
these scholars; a polite Kindred can garner juicy gossip through 
intrigue or by doing a few social favors for the group, especially 
if he has any sway in local Kindred politics.
Tremere characters could very well find themselves tem-
porarily assigned to work with the coterie. Other vampires 
could have personal interests that overlap with the coterie’s 
studies. After all, if a group of mysterious Tremere show up 
and start poking around in, say, Noddist lore, then any local 
Noddists are sure to get curious, followed by any Camarilla 
Kindred concerned about the heresy. The coterie is not above 
hiring out some local help when necessary, through money 
or favors (although, as typical with reasonably established 
Tremere, they probably won’t teach Thaumaturgy or offer 
Tremere secrets).
Influence
Being Tremere on good terms with many of the clan’s 
elders, the Secondary Sources can call upon significant 
amounts of money and information in the course of their 
research. The coterie’s influence will, of course, be greatest in 
Camarilla cities, especially where a local Tremere can assist 
by operating from a position of minor authority.
Politically, the Secondary Sources coterie has limited 
sway. Because they travel often, they have few settled re-
sources in terms of mortal connections, and they rarely make 
any long-standing allegiances with Kindred. Most often, the 
coterie simply makes its introductions to the local prince and/
or regent and goes about its secretive business. While some 
princes would be leery of acknowledging an entire group of 
Tremere all at once, their impeccable behavior and adherence 
to Tradition is a great help. Often, the coterie will even arrange 
a deal, using its knowledge to assist a prince in some local 
affair while it carries out its own business. The investigative 
acumen of the coterie allows it to track Kindred with terrifying 
skill; a local Lick on the outs with the prince can easily be 
discovered, and for a small consideration the coterie could 
even aid the local sheriff or scourge in hunting or capturing 
the unfortunate. Kindred of dubious lineage can be flushed 
out through blood magic that determines lineage and verac-
ity. Dirty little (or big) secrets like wayward childer, errant 
diableries and specialized feeding habits can be unearthed 
by the coterie, or evidence of such can be manufactured.…
When forced into a sensitive position — that is, in Sab-
bat or other hostile territory, or when a local prince refuses to 
cooperate with the coterie — the group relies on Thauma-
turgy and influence to cloak its operations. Misdirection is 
also key; often the group will send out a few mortal “feelers” 
after some minor item of no real interest and allow would-be 
interference to waste energy chasing down the coterie’s false 
operations. The coterie sometimes hires moonlighters from 
among local museum specialists, university anthropologists 
or historians who have redundant skills — if the hired help 
becomes a casualty, the coterie doesn’t lose any special talent, 
and in the meantime they can find out who attacked and 
how. False fronts receive money and vices in return for some 
rather obvious work. A professor might be asked to check 
with all of his contacts, just to make sure that word spreads; 
once the professor receives an unpleasant visit from a group 
of ghouls or Kindred, the coterie has an idea of who to watch 
out for. That’s if they’re discovered at all. In emergencies, 
use of Dominate allows the coterie to keep a low profile if it 
scrupulously avoids contact with other Kindred, at least for a 
short time (long enough, hopefully, to finish their research).
Research and 
Development
The Secondary Sources coterie does quite a bit of impor-
tant research, and occasionally manages to dig up something 
completely new. Naturally, the lack of a central chantry hinders 
things somewhat — every time the coterie moves to a new 
locale, it must re-establish its facilities, a time-consuming task. 
Long experience means that these Kindred are well-versed 
in set-up and take-down and in “speed science” — analysis 
of sites and material under adverse conditions.
Although rapid response would normally dictate flying to 
a locale, the group usually moves in a pair of vans. One cannot 
reliably check a set of metallurgical and thaumaturgical analysis 
kits through baggage, after all. Should someone be needed on a 
site immediately, the individual typically travels on a red-eye jet 
(first class, of course — imagine a Lick frenzying in the midst of 
cramped seats, bad weather and squalling children in coach). 
That team member does preliminary research and set-up while 
waiting for the rest of the coterie to arrive.


Chapter Three: The Registry
89
The coterie’s vans boast special modifications to aid 
in Kindred travel. Both are built with the expected shaded 
windows, heavy suspension and secure cellular equipment. 
Generally, research material is evenly split between the 
two; if one van is lost or damaged, the other will still have 
sufficient supplies to do some work while replacements are 
purchased. In a pinch, the back of either van can double as 
an emergency haven. Most often, though, the coterie uses 
cheap hotels; skill, tact and bribes (with the occasional 
supplement of Dominate) allow them to use false identities, 
and some Thaumaturgy protects the room from sunlight or 
vigilant housekeepers. Once at the site of an investigation, 
the group sets up shop for an extended stay — hotels for a 
week or two, actual property rental for longer periods.
Because the Secondary Sources team doesn’t focus much 
on mortal interaction, it doesn’t need much in the way of a 
cover. Nosy hotel clerks receive the brush-off, while feeding 
is made easier through the use of Disciplines. The team has 
just three responsibilities: get in, get information, get out. 
That means setting up surveillance around trouble spots, 
making connections with local Kindred “in the know” and 
then formulating a hypothesis. Once finished, the group packs 
up and sends its report to their patron or whatever parties in 
the Tremere clan might be able to make sense of the matter.
Of course, the Secondary Sources team doesn’t spend all 
of its time in research of the unknown. These are vampires 
with individual desires and interests outside of their work. 
Between jobs, the team often splits up, sometimes for months 
at a stretch, to pursue personal interests. Team members 
remain in casual contact, in case a new job comes up. Still, 
just as much as the Tremere hierarchy uses influence to sup-
ply them with material and money for research, it also gives 
the coterie members their space to unwind (and, perhaps, 
to indulge in sordid pursuits without straining the mortal 
populace in one area too much).
Between assignments, the coterie sometimes changes 
composition. Although a core of skilled researchers make 
up the team, most jobs also call for the aid of a specialist. If 
the team investigates unusual pieces of metal found in the 
remnants of a medieval armory, a metallurgist is brought 
in; fossils require the services of paleontologists, and so on. 
Naturally, the coterie prefers to use local Tremere for such 
work, but that’s not always possible. In such cases, the coterie 
often approaches a mortal specialist. In addition to money, 
the coterie’s familiar with the value of favors and mortal vices 
to secure allegiance. The coterie panders to specialists with 
weaknesses for gambling, esoteric information, a thrill for 
danger — the coterie can offer “cloak and dagger” operations 
or long-lost texts (often faxed or e-mailed from a Tremere 
who owns the material in question). Conversely, the coterie 
avoids threats or blackmail; because the group moves so often, 
it’s too dangerous to leave behind a disgruntled mortal who 
might be out of reach within a month. If asked about their 
nocturnal study cycle, they simply note that they’re hiring 
the consultant privately, and it wouldn’t do to compete with 
normal job hours; furthermore, they often employ a ghoul 
or a handful of oblivious mortal “account executives” to add 
a little daytime flexibility and believability to the schedule.
The Kindred and Cohorts
Several decades of odd research jobs have refined the core 
of the Secondary Sources coterie. Like Tremere everywhere, 
they are a fractious bunch rotten with infighting, but they 
manage to complete their tasks because failure would be worse. 
So far, no situation has come up that has severely tested the 
loyalty of the coterie. Should their research uncover a secret 
too terrible, though, they might unfortunately find themselves 
at odds with Tremere interests, with dangerous results.
Regent Karl Johansen
Background: What happens when a Cainite finds himself 
backed into an untenable situation but even the escape of 
death is not an option? Regent Johansen discovered the hard 
way that the Curse alone is not the worst condition — the 
Curse merely makes it possible to survive forever in one’s 
personal hell.
Karl’s introduction to Tremere society seemed 
promising enough. He’d showed skill as a turn-of-the-(19th-)
century German occultist. Even while living, he studied al-
chemy and spiritualism along with more traditional medicine 
and politics. This set him up for a social meeting with his 
sire-to-be, a prominent English Tremere who’d been looking 
for more recruits specifically for research purposes. The turn 
of the century, it seemed, brought with it hysteria, religious 
fervor and a resurgence of occultism; many likely candidates 
presented themselves, and the world almost felt as if it had 
accelerated toward a new acceptance of mysticism. Karl’s eager 
inquiries into such culture, combined with his incisive intel-
lect, made him Bartholomew’s choice. He made it through his 


Clanbook: Tremere
90
Roleplaying Hints: You’re asleep, sort of. These nights 
you fluctuate between letting your consciousness drift in 
dreams, and occasionally peering out to see what the coterie 
is doing. Most often you can’t be bothered with trivial details. 
Rather, you come forth when an idea presents itself, or when 
the weight of trepidation from your subordinates becomes too 
great (that is, you initiate contact when you feel that they 
are in a bind). If something is desperate enough to draw your 
attention, you let your mind float up from dreams to speak 
with your attaché; however, it’s harder and harder to tell 
dream from “reality” these nights, and sometimes you make 
no sense whatsoever. It would take a monumental threat to 
actually cause you to wake up at this point.
In odder moods, you sometimes even remotely manipulate 
objects around you with your Thaumaturgy. How you do this 
without speech or gesture to focus, nobody’s quite figured out 
yet. At least once you terrified an apprentice who didn’t know 
what to expect when he entered your “office” to discover 
pens, books and ritual implements floating about you in a lazy 
circle. Your manipulation of surrounding objects often has 
more to do with your mood or dreams than with what you’re 
thinking. You could very well carry on a lucid “conversation” 
with a subordinate, while at the same time an object on your 
desk traces odd and meaningless patterns in the air, because 
your conscious and subconscious thoughts seem to flow and 
interweave during your half-slumber.
Sire: Bartholomew Whitaker
Nature: Curmudgeon
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1801
Apparent Age: mid 50s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 1
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 4, Appearance 1
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 4, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 3, Expression 3, Intimidation 4, Leader-
ship 3, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Etiquette 2, Firearms 1, Melee 1, Security 1
Knowledges: Academics (history) 4, Investigation 2, Law 4, 
Linguistics (English, Latin) 2, Medicine 2, Occult 4, Politics 
2, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 5, Dominate 3, Fortitude 2, Thauma-
turgy 4
Thaumaturgical Paths: Path of Blood 4, Movement of Mind 2, 
Oneiromancy 2
Thaumaturgical Rituals: (Level One) Defense of Sacred 
Haven, Purity of Flesh, Rite of Introduction, Sanguineous 
Phial; (Level Two) Blood Walk, Warding Circle versus Ghouls
Backgrounds: Clan Prestige 2, Resources 4, Retainers 2, Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 8
Embrace, through the rituals and oaths and into the ranks of 
apprentices, where he studied diligently for several decades.
Within 50 years of his Embrace, Karl had proven his 
capabilities and his dedication. As a reward, he was “pro-
moted” to lead the Secondary Sources team, whose former 
leader had crumbled to dust after badly mishandling a sacred 
relic. Although at first Karl thrilled to the opportunities for 
travel and research, he soon came to see the job for the li-
ability that it was: without a settled chantry, he commanded 
no real resources or respect. He was constantly pushed for 
updates and reports on phenomena outside the experience 
of any Kindred. He was assigned only apprentices who were 
eccentric or difficult to work with; when the occasional ap-
prentice volunteered, invariably matters became a struggle 
for leadership of the coterie. It was a grim job, but it was what 
little authority he could scrape together.
Karl never quite figured out who he annoyed or what 
task he failed to draw such dismal duties (as he saw them). 
Regency of the coterie took up all of his attention, leaving 
him little time for personal pursuits. This weighed him down, 
and he became increasingly short-tempered and bitter.
By the 1940s, Karl lapsed into a deep depression. Although 
he still did his work, he simply didn’t have enough drive to 
continue the constant political infighting, the squabbling for 
resources and the puzzling over bad situations that needed 
blame. He slipped into torpor in the very chair from which 
he studied, but just when everyone expected that he would 
simply be interred and command of the coterie transferred, 
he made his presence known mentally. With his formidable 
command of Auspex, Karl continued to lead the coterie as 
an abstract thinker and authority, using telepathy, and later 
astral appearances, to communicate.
Karl has remained torpid for several decades, and his body 
has weakened. Still, he manages to use his mental powers to 
communicate with his agents and to keep the coterie in motion. 
He slips between periods of lucidity and dream; sometimes his 
missives contain emotions or ideas that have no clear context 
to the world around him. When the coterie needs to move, 
they box him up, chair and all, and load him into the van. 
Karl lets his apprentices handle mundane paperwork while he 
rests and concentrates solely on mental problems that might 
interest him. Ghouls or unlucky apprentices maintain his suit 
and his surroundings, and take direction mentally.
Image: Emaciated and comatose, Karl has aged badly. 
Although he was only in his 30s when Embraced, he has 
become quite desiccated over the years. His skin is yellowed 
and taut, his face rictuslike. Although a rotating body of 
servitors keeps his suit immaculately groomed, he makes for 
an unsettling corpselike figure, hands locked about the arms 
of his ancient chair. Naturally, few people ever actually see 
him. Most often he’s heard as a telepathic voice — in such 
circumstances, he sounds low, gravelly and commanding, 
much like a stern patriarchal figure, exuding authority and 
eliciting reflexive obedience.


Chapter Three: The Registry
91
the Damned held little room for a neonate Kindred with a 
reputation as a kinslayer, so she decided to go further abroad. 
In the interim, she developed her skills in intrigue, learning 
to sublimate her own desires and pretend to listen to and 
accommodate others. She mastered the bartering technique 
of asking for far more than she ever hoped to achieve so that 
she could seem reasonable in a compromise while still getting 
what she wanted — when seeking domain from a prince, she’d 
ask for twice the area she hoped to influence and for right 
of progeny besides; once both sides reached a compromise, 
she’d claim a small domain while still appearing to back down 
graciously from her initial demands. In every city she visited, 
she bound ghouls with the dual edges of the blood bond and 
her own lasciviousness, often surprising other Kindred with 
her resulting daylight resources. None of these ghouls ever 
survived her moving to another city, as Varya had no desire 
to leave loose ends behind.
Once out of southern Russia, Varya quickly learned about 
the Secondary Sources team and requested work with them. Not 
only was their torpid regent unlikely to be a challenge to her 
own rise to prominence, but they traveled widely and unearthed 
powers that the rest of the clan ignored or didn’t understand. 
Cultivating a “helpful apprentice” image, Varya secured her 
posting and quickly became the right hand of the regent. She 
took up his authority as her own, filed the necessary reports and 
became the real night-to-night leader for the team. On at least 
one occasion another apprentice in the coterie received “bad 
intel” that led to his demise at the talons of Lupines, but thus 
far Varya has evaded blame. As Varya becomes increasingly 
frustrated with the coterie, her depredations become bolder. 
Only Regent Johansen’s telepathy keeps Varya from plotting 
directly against him, as she fears that he may know more than 
he lets on and simply waits to act.
For now, Varya bides her time; eventually Regent Johan-
sen will err, slip totally into unconsciousness or crumble to dust, 
and she’ll have authority of her own. She wishes to use the 
team to broaden her skills, make contacts in many areas and 
learn tricks that other Kindred don’t know. Already she’s ac-
cumulated boons in multiple cities across the Americas (both 
North and South). In Columbus she arranged for evening 
use of a local museum so that the Toreador primogen could 
throw a presentation party for a new childe. In Paraguay, she 
managed to work a deal with a Sabbat-sympathetic Ventrue, 
trading some historical notes about the Mayan emigration 
for heretical Noddist lore desired by a Camarilla elder in the 
States who didn’t want to sully his image with direct Sabbat 
or Noddist ties. In all cases, the coterie has assisted in her 
work or provided an excuse for her to travel, because success 
in her endeavors gives the other apprentices a better track 
record and more credit with other Tremere. Once she’s taken 
what she wants from the coterie, she’ll leave it behind and 
take up a chantry of her own, or so she hopes.
Image: The value of good appearance is not lost on Varya. 
Mortals and younger Cainites can often be swayed by a sexy 
Varya Korlov, Apprentice Attaché
Background: If not for being in the wrong place at the 
right time, Varya probably would’ve had an unassuming life 
as the wife of a successful older man, drawing wealth and 
privilege before settling down as a matron involved in local 
politics. As it was, though, her raw glamour and predatory 
instincts made her not only a celebrated and desirable young 
woman in her rural Russian home, but also a prospect for the 
Tremere. It helped that her sire, Lhÿrcan, was a once-affluent 
Tremere who’d succumbed to insanity; who could fathom why 
he whimsically chose this beauty for the Embrace? Of course, 
Varya exceeded the initial expectations of those who thought 
her merely a showpiece; perhaps her delusional sire did retain 
some cunning insight. It wasn’t enough to save him from his 
own childe; Varya chafed under the restrictions of a capricious, 
domineering sire, and arranged his demise through a pair of 
mortals whom she cajoled with teasing hints of intimacy.
Although an Embrace on a whim didn’t make for an 
auspicious introduction to the Tremere, Varya carved out 
her own position in the clan. Already familiar with using 
people, she discovered that good looks alone wouldn’t get 
her far, but her willingness to break a few rules made up for 
it. Initially, her inexperienced attempts at intrigue only made 
enemies. Kindred weren’t easily enticed with sex appeal, 
and most were too canny to underestimate a woman. Varya 
didn’t quite suffer Lextalionis, but her wantonly avaricious 
ways made her no allies.
With the end of the Cold War, Varya realized her op-
portunity to travel. Russia’s collapsing infrastructure meant 
that the government was much more lax about émigrés. With 
nothing tying her to Russia — she had no loyalty to any family 
or friends there — Varya left to make her own way among 
Kindred, far from the courts where she’d stumbled as a childe. 
She realized quickly that the stratified European society of 


Clanbook: Tremere
92
demeanor, while many elders do pay attention to people who 
take the time to dress well in consideration of them. Varya 
therefore uses her beauty to advantage, carefully grooming her 
black hair and using makeup to offset her pallor. She keeps 
a set of three different ensembles ready for travel: a severe 
and conservative business suit, more casual eveningwear and 
sturdy khakis when in the field (that is, when the possibility 
of exertion or dirt comes up).
Though she’s only 5’ 4” tall, Varya knows how to make 
an impression. She walks with confidence, holds people’s 
gazes with her own dark brown eyes when she speaks and 
never, ever stumbles over her words. Her lean figure remains 
attractive in a waifish, fashion-model way.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re the epitome of confident 
diplomacy. You speak with assumed authority; the regent 
will back you up as his attaché, and in any case your per-
sonality is forceful enough that you usually get what you 
want before that even becomes an issue. When the crunch 
comes, you yield and let people think that you’re a pushover. 
Then you snap back to take what you want. If someone 
confronts you, just assuage her concerns and agree. Only 
vent real vitriol when you’re certain that you have a posi-
tion of strength. Behind the scenes, though, you easily use 
and discard people, and you’re even starting to acquire a 
perverse taste for entreating your enemies into compromising 
positions — pretend to befriend someone, then throw him 
away and watch with glee as your “friend” realizes that he 
was just a diversion.
Sire: Lhÿrcan the Mad
Nature: Autocrat
Demeanor: Bon Vivant
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1955
Apparent Age: early 20s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 3, Appearance 4
Mental: Perception 2, Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 1, Empathy 1, Expression 4, Intimidation 
3, Leadership 2, Style 2, Subterfuge (seduction) 4
Skills: Etiquette (diplomacy) 4, Performance 3
Knowledges: Academics 2, Computer 1, Finance 2, Investiga-
tion 1, Linguistics (English, French, Greek, Latin) 3, Occult 
2, Politics (prestation) 4
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Dominate 4, Presence 1, Thaumaturgy 1
Thaumaturgical Paths: Path of Blood 1
Thaumaturgical Rituals: (Level One) Bind the Accusing 
Tongue, Impressive Visage, Rebirth of Mortal Vanity
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Herd 2, Resources 3, Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 5
Note: Varya does not have a usual “herd.” Instead of 
a settled group of people, she uses her formidable charisma 
and force of personality to establish a small herd at need 
whenever the group travels. This generally requires at least 
a few nights in one location, but her proficiency at doing so 
is best represented simply with this Background.
Thomas Wellby
Background: Thomas fills a specific niche. In the 
aftermath of the second World War, the Tremere had lost 
several recruits to the general chaos engulfing the world. The 
Secondary Sources coterie was pushed to the limit exploring 
new opportunities opened by global trade and transportation, 
but at the same time its membership hovered at two vampires 
and a lone ghoul at any given time — completely unable to 
do its job. Regent Karl Johansen awakened for the last time 
to choose a new recruit specifically to fill these needs.
Linguistics and social analysis were Thomas’ special-
ties. This made him a perfect candidate for the increasingly 
wide-ranging coterie’s needs in foreign lands. In addition, 
he studied symbology, which tied in nicely with the occult-
ism of the Tremere. Karl singled him out due to a book that 
Thomas had written, a treatise describing the underpinning 
thought-elements that led to lingual drift. That little bit of 
academia made Thomas notable among a few other students 
of language, but also wound up drawing the attention that 
made him undead. The Kindred mind does not adapt easily 
to linguistic changes. Thomas posited that language changes 
reflect prevailing trends in culture and also simplification of 
form, until original words and phrases become stripped into 
abbreviated molds devoid of their original meaning. The 
transformation from key concept to obsolescent relic mir-
rored the progress from common event to mythic remnant.
Of course, this sort of esoterica easily dwindled into 
overspecialization, but Thomas had other skills as well. His 


Chapter Three: The Registry
93
Knowledges: Academics (sociology) 4, Investigation 3, 
Linguistics (Egyptian, French, German, Greek, Italian, Latin, 
Sanskrit, Spanish) 4, Occult 4, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Dominate 2, Thaumaturgy 2
Thaumaturgical Paths: Path of Blood 2
Thaumaturgical Rituals: (Level One) Defense of the Sacred 
Haven, Deflection of Wooden Doom, Rite of Introduction, 
Sense the Mystical, The Scribe; (Level Two) Blood Walk, 
Extinguish, Principal Focus of Vitae Infusion
Backgrounds: Fame 1, Resources 2, Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 5
published papers on linguistics gave him some contact and 
credibility with the academic community. On the side, Thomas 
also turned out to be a passable mechanic; during his youth 
he’d devoted extensive work to cars, passionately tricking out 
his Mercury and experimenting with modified engines, racing 
tires, even a little nitrous oxide. His enthusiasm remained 
even during his professorial tenure, and he kept a customized 
show truck, adding underdrive pulleys and fuel injection as 
new accessories became available. For a coterie that traveled 
extensively, mechanical maintenance was imperative.
Once inducted into the coterie, Thomas managed to 
adjust primarily because of his own training in social psychol-
ogy and thought evolution — radical concepts that came out 
of his radical era. He found the study of the Tremere and the 
Camarilla as societies fascinating. He also thrilled to Tremere 
mysticism and mastered some traditional forms of magic, 
playing on his understanding of intent and symbol power.
Image: Thomas received his Embrace right on the cusp 
of the hippie era, and it shows; he has scraggly, slightly thin-
ning hair and a pock-marked face. He wears corrective glasses 
out of habit, and tends to pick bulky, large-rimmed glasses 
because he hasn’t adapted to contact lenses. Coming in at 
a modest 5’ 9” and a heavyset 180 lbs., Thomas looks like 
a pudgy English professor, but his entire demeanor changes 
when he finds a topic of interest. Around mechanical work 
he dresses in overalls and has a nimble jocularity. When 
engrossed in books or language research, he tends to carry a 
satchel with reference materials, and has a habit of leaving 
books on tables and forgetting to pick them up later.
Roleplaying Hints: Among strangers, you tend to 
be somewhat withdrawn; you analyze other people before 
jumping into conversations. With your coterie or other 
acquaintances, you open up a bit more, letting other people 
guide the conversation until something catches your interest. 
Dissertations about linguistics cause you to become animated, 
speaking rapidly and gesticulating for emphasis. Working on 
cars, conversely, calms you down; you always keep a full tool 
set in one of the vans, and when you have a grease rag and 
socket wrench in hand, you’re rather congenial. You enjoy 
discussions of auto customization; indeed, you consider lin-
guistic analysis “work” and mechanics “play.”
Sire: Karl Johansen
Nature: Perfectionist
Demeanor: Pedagogue
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1960
Apparent Age: mid-30s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 2
Talents: Expression (technical writing) 4, Subterfuge 2
Skills: Crafts (auto mechanic) 4, Etiquette 1, Performance 1
Almiro Suarez
Background: With the advent of industrialization and 
globalization, the dense cities of many nations become places 
of opportunity. Those who manage to learn technical skills 
stand to make a great deal of money as laborers or investors 
when international businesses come calling to set up their 
trades. Almiro’s family managed such a feat. Originally from 
lower-class stock, Almiro’s family moved to Rio while he was 
young. There, his father secured an education at night while 
working as a manual laborer by day, and managed to land a 
job working for a telephone company. Almiro went from a 
scruffy kid in the streets to having real prospects, and he took 
advantage of them — he educated himself in electronics and 
communications engineering, and went on to follow in his 
father’s footsteps.
Almiro made many contacts during the course of his em-
ployment, often through radio, computer or other anonymous 
media. One such contact was Ramon Alvaro, who initially 
called for aid in repairing the phone lines in his home — the 


Clanbook: Tremere
94
old cabling had degraded with age, and Almiro had to replace 
several connectors. Ramon, explaining that he worked nights, 
invited Almiro to stay for a drink, ostensibly so that Almiro could 
explain the technology behind the phone cabling, the repair work 
he’d done and how to modernize the structure. Eventually the 
discussion spun off into soccer teams, with Almiro and Ramon 
championing their favorite players and animatedly discussing 
the universal stupidity of coaches. Almiro and Ramon kept up 
correspondence thereafter, but Almiro didn’t realize that Ramon 
was considering him for the Embrace until two months later, 
when Ramon asked Almiro to drop by for an evening party and 
didn’t specify that the partygoers were Kindred. Almiro awoke 
from the affair as one of the undead, and had to juggle his work 
schedule to keep his job (he managed by shifting to emergency 
response for nights and evenings, in cases where storm damage 
or disaster had destroyed parts of the phone network).
About a year after Almiro’s conversion, Regent Johansen’s 
coterie arrived to track a local cult, one that used encrypted 
e-mail, distributed networks, stock trading and industrial 
espionage to spread its occult missives across Rio, New York 
and Bangladesh. Brazil’s Tremere weren’t so much bothered 
by the cult as interested in how it had acquired texts with 
worship rites for She Who Screams in Darkness, the cult’s 
malignant goddess(?)-figure. Unearthing the cult’s sources 
required someone capable of defeating the cult’s communi-
cation systems, which meant a modern Tremere. Almiro fit 
the bill, and Varya requested his assistance. Almiro saw the 
job as a challenge, and although it took him several months 
of dedicated work, he managed to tap one of the cult’s com-
puter lines, copy their data for two weeks and uncover the 
original sources. Following his success, Almiro requested the 
chance to follow up on the case, and joined the coterie as it 
headed back to the States for the New York branch. Almiro 
relished the work and also saw the opportunity to make more 
widespread contacts, especially important given his relatively 
high generation and modern heritage.
Image: A congenial, snappy fellow, Almiro in many 
ways exemplifies modern Kindred. He wears slacks and 
button-down shirts that one would expect of a technologi-
cal professional, carries a beeper, pays attention to personal 
hygiene and often has a small black briefcase with electrical 
diagnostic equipment and a laptop computer. Almiro’s just 
under six feet tall, with a slightly overlarge nose and browned 
skin that’s become ashen with his Kindred condition. He 
smiles often out of habit.
Roleplaying Hints: Intellectual puzzles still thrill you, 
which is a good thing because you’ve found yourself slipping 
away from your usual even temperament with increasing 
frequency. You enjoy talking, just about whimsical topics, 
or about nothing in particular. From time to time you try to 
catch up with soccer scores, but you’re starting to give up; 
you just don’t have the time. On the one hand, you resent 
some of your treatment in the coterie — Varya flaunts her 
age and authority — but on the other hand, your handle on 
modern technology makes you indispensable. To compen-
sate, you don’t bother to explain what you’re doing when 
a tech problem comes up; you just solve it and, if someone 
asks what you’re doing, you give a pat explanation to make 
it sound simple (and make the inquiring party look stupid). 
You relish the opportunity to meet other Kindred and enjoy 
trading stories, be they actual events from your respective 
pasts or just sociable anecdotes.
Sire: Ramon Alvaro
Nature: Celebrant
Demeanor: Architect
Generation: 12th
Embrace: 1991
Apparent Age: mid-20s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 2, Empathy 
1, Streetwise 2
Skills: Craft (electrical engineering) 4, Drive 2, Firearms 1, 
Security 2, Stealth 2
Knowledges: Academics 1, Computer 3, Finance 2, Investi-
gation (computer searches) 4, Linguistics 2 (Latin, English), 
Occult 3, Science 4
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Thaumaturgy 3
Thaumaturgical Paths: Elemental Mastery 3, Technomancy 1
Thaumaturgical Rituals: (Level One) Communicate with 
Kindred Sire, Encrypt Missive, Expedient Paperwork; (Level 
Two) Bureaucratic Condemnation, Principal Focus of Vitae In-
fusion; (Level Three) Telecommunication, Sanguine Assistant
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 3, Resources 2, Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 6
Tremere of Note
The Tremere hierarchy disseminates information with 
frightening efficiency, yet mystery still surrounds its most 
prominent members. Those who achieve some measure of 
fame and success find their foibles distorted in the retellings, 
or hear specious rumors of their incredible hidden powers and 
secrets — after all, those clan members who need to know 
the truth will learn, while prospective adversaries will have 
naught but innuendo and outrageous tales against which to 
weigh their plots. The mightier the Tremere, the more legend-
ary the stories — but in the Final Nights it sometimes seems 
that the most terrifyingly bizarre accounts are all too true.
Tremere
What has not been said of the renegade founder, wizard, 
elder and enigma? As with any placed among the mythical 
Antediluvians, stories contradict wildly. Historical accounts — 


Chapter Three: The Registry
95
if they can be called such — place Tremere as a cunning and 
manipulative magician who stole immortality, but all other specu-
lations are open to interpretation. Some rumors state that he is 
a diablerist and demonologist; others believe that he intends to 
fuse the Kindred condition with his own mystic understanding to 
surpass the Curse of Caine. Stories have depicted him alternately 
as a mighty wizard of fearsome mien, as a limbless white worm, 
as a three-eyed beast or as a withered and demonic figure. Still, 
appearance means nothing to one of Tremere’s stature.
While the Camarilla vehemently denies the legends of 
Antediluvians, Tremere’s apocryphal deeds certainly seem to 
match their power (if not their age). Some Kindred famil-
iar with the Tremere clan believe that there is no singular 
“Tremere,” but those in positions of hierarchical authority 
occasionally mutter imprecations about directives handed 
down to the uppermost secret elders from the demented 
dreams of what can only be described as an ancient monster. 
Certainly something seems to guide the clan’s loyal members, 
but is it Tremere? Did the magician pass away long ago, or 
did he simply give way to something more terrifying as the 
monstrous Cainite curse devoured his soul? Does he, indeed, 
still exist tonight, or is the shadow of Tremere simply a con-
spiracy levied over an entire race of vampires? Answers vary 
from party to party. Those who dig too deeply into Tremere’s 
ultimate fate often find themselves bound to the Tremere clan 
by potent magic, if they do not vanish entirely.
Ultimately, all that can be said with certainty about 
Tremere — whether or not he or it even continues to exist — 
is that he was a mystery beyond the understanding of either 
sorcerers or the Damned. Tremere was unique, an individual 
who could not be described by simple categories.
For Storytellers who want a handle on the “real Tremere,” 
see Transylvania Chronicles IV. Tremere diablerized Saulot, 
but in the process the Antediluvian exerted an unexpected 
control over Tremere’s later actions, the results of which 
culminated in the destruction of the Tremere antitribu. Note, 
however, that Tremere and his supporters remain very close-
mouthed about such issues — were rumors to widely spread 
that Tremere is a diablerist, that Saulot exerts control over 
his body, or that he destroyed an entire bloodline, other 
Kindred would move much more decisively to purge the 
Tremere clan. Literally no more than a dozen individuals left 
in the world (including, perhaps, your players’ characters, if 
they participated in the Transylvania Chronicles) know the 
truth surrounding these horrible events.
The Council of Seven
Beneath the mythical Tremere are seven vampires of fell 
power, who, combined, oversee the worldly (and otherworldly) 
doings of the entire Tremere clan. Because the founder can-
not be expected to personally guide the clan in all things, or 
even to be aware of the state of the modern world, the council 
operates as an administrative body for all Tremere. While the 
founder hides in myth and superstition, the council is all too 
real, especially to those who fail the Tremere clan in some 
fashion spectacular enough to draw their ire.
This is not to say that the council sits like some undead 
Congress that passes legislation and indulges in political fraud, 
though. Rather, each councilor clings to a vision of acceptable 
conduct and business, and sets the standards by which Tremere 
in his or her region are measured. The council itself is a frater-
nity of equals or near-equals, each with personal agendas and 
individual visions for the Tremere clan, who recruit support-
ers for their projects and disseminate important information, 
while at the same time making sure that problems threatening 
the entire Tremere clan face a unified opposition. Should an 
individual pontifex become lax in, say, the political scene of 
a small European country, a displeased councilor might send a 
letter noting that the choice of a liberal Democrat candidate 
over a state Socialist does not sit with his long-term vision for 
the country. Similarly, the councilors make wide-ranging deci-
sions regarding policy. Should a rash Tremere neonate hand 
out thaumaturgical secrets to non-Tremere, other apprentices 
and regents will scorn the hapless fledgling and perhaps even 
move against him to curry the favor of more “respectable” 
Tremere — those who follow the council’s wishes. Rarely 
does the council move directly against someone; instead, a 
councilor will let his pontifices and lords know what pleases 
him and what vexes him, and allow the subordinates to sort 
out the proper course of action for those who wish to remain 
in good stead. The council is often seen as having impeccable 
judgment and extremely far-sighted planning, so few individual 
Tremere would dare to presume superior discretion.
The council comprises the canniest and oldest of sur-
viving Tremere; indeed, its membership includes those who 
turned from mortal magicians to undead in the first nights of 
the clan’s usurpation. Each councilor oversees a continental 
locale, be it Western Europe, Africa, North America or the 
like (though not necessarily in person), attended by such 
aides as he or she can recruit and support. Membership on 
the council rarely changes; only a total disaster would be able 
to erode the support or unlife of one of these potent Cainites. 
Not that such things are impossible.…
Etrius: First Among Equals
Most notable of the Council of Seven is Etrius, the right 
hand of Tremere. Rumors claim that Etrius dealt directly 
with Tremere in the clan’s earliest affairs, in the days when 
they were still mortal, and that he continues to speak with 
the founder on matters of importance. Etrius watches over 
Eastern Europe, the primary chantry in Vienna and the crypt 
where Tremere is supposedly entombed. As the most trusted 
of Tremere’s original followers, Etrius commands respect from 
the entirety of the clan.
To hear others speak of him, Etrius seems a congenial and 
even compassionate figure. He argued long and hard against 
Tremere’s original plan for immortality, against the acceptance 
of vampirism, against the usurpation of a place in Cainite soci-


Clanbook: Tremere
96
ety and against the radical plans of Goratrix. Etrius spoke dire 
predictions of the consequences to all should such courses of 
action take place, but he always stood loyally beside Tremere. 
However, Etrius was (and is) far from a caring individual — rather, 
he is conservative in the extreme, unwilling to give up even a 
minuscule advantage and carefully judging every risk versus 
potential reward. Although this means that he did not and does 
not make such risky leaps of research as Tremere and Goratrix, 
it also means that he has weathered the past millennium very 
safely and strongly indeed. Etrius errs on the side of caution.
In the modern nights, Etrius has adapted quite well. A 
carefully picked brood of neonates assists when he requires 
aid with some artifact of the current era, but Etrius is not so 
foolish as to demand complete use of their time, and rewards 
them well for their services. Although far from a technological 
Kindred, Etrius is a deep thinker, and he brings a formidably 
logical intellect to bear. Nearly any problem that confronts 
him becomes subject to a battery of intricate tests and feints to 
determine its roots and causes, after which Etrius methodically 
sets his subordinates to defusing it or turning it to his advantage. 
A lord may find a request for an apprentice capable of carrying 
out chemical analysis, while a pontifex in some other part of 
the world receives a note about correlating thaumaturgical 
research with some new anticoagulant, and a mortal agent in 
the CDC is pressured to release data regarding recent studies in 
hemotoxins. Etrius works as a capable manager, giving each aide 
just enough information to yield useful answers. During such 
times, he himself oversees the final results of such wide-ranging 
projects as dissemination of a new counter-ritual to all regents 
or development of economic resources in Bosnia to gain a foot-
hold in the turbulent government of the region. Keenly aware 
of his place at the head of a fragile hierarchy, Etrius disguises 
his personal interests as matters of clan security, which affords 
him a great deal of leeway. More importantly, he has substantial 
contact with elder Kindred outside the Tremere pyramid; as one 
of the architects of the Camarilla so many centuries ago, he 
retains significant clout in that organization. All told, Etrius has 
a combination of elder allies and modern, cutting-edge resources 
to direct as he pleases. Elders who owe favors from centuries past 
may grudgingly give aid, while apprentices and regents hoping 
for advancement or trust with a new project may use their local 
intrigues on his behalf. With a word to an aide, Etrius sets in 
motion a phone call that encourages an apprentice in Taiwan 
to forward sales figures from computer chips over to a consultant 
in London, who in turn analyzes the numbers in exchange for 
thaumaturgical instruction from a lord who was promoted by 
Etrius. The end result: Etrius can completely insulate himself 
from night-to-night modern operations; a report arrives in the 
hands of his aide within a few nights, detailing the impact of 
the rising chip prices in terms that his Middle Ages thinking 
can understand — “Merchants in Taiwan raise prices because 
they’re the only ones with the supplies, but craftsmen in Burma 
could be convinced to compete.” Even though he can barely 
comprehend a telephone, Etrius’ planning skills allow him to 
see a broad picture, while his position lets him call upon spe-
cialists to handle the detail work of influencing such matters 
as he cares to change.
Many of Etrius’ policies naturally reflect “typical Tremere 
response patterns,” such as they are. The slow, methodical 
expansion of the clan, rather than chaotic growth, stems 
largely from his prudent planning. Etrius also oversees reports 
of thaumaturgical development and carefully selects promising 
students or paths for wider exposure to the clan, while simulta-
neously assigning dissidents to dangerous duty. Etrius advocates 
the complete understanding of any special undertaking before 
proceeding to the next step. Although this sometimes leaves 
the Tremere behind the curve of rapidly advancing technol-
ogy, it also means that his policies and programs almost always 
work, based as they are on proven techniques.
As caretaker to the physical Tremere corpse and spiritual 
Tremere clan, Etrius occupies perhaps the greatest niche of 
personal responsibility known to any Kindred less than the 
Antediluvians. The entire Council of Seven weighs its responses 
by his shifts in mood; the merest expression from Etrius can 
elevate a promising neonate or doom a hapless scapegoat. 
More and more, Etrius finds himself thrust into direct action, 
when before he would be content to wait and watch from 
behind the scenes. Worse still, he finds himself reacting to the 
pace of the modern world, his defensive posture unable to 
keep up with rapid change, and thus forcing him into greater 
reliance on neonate Kindred familiar with the technological 
world. Having long since eroded his Humanity away in favor 
of pragmatism, Etrius becomes increasingly short-tempered 
and desperate. To a radically innovative Tremere, he could 
be a formidable patron, but failure… best not to contemplate 
the consequences.
Goratrix the Betrayer
Counterpoint to Etrius, Goratrix stood at Tremere’s 
side as the once-mortal wizards sold their souls into cursed 
undeath. Credited with the development of the formula that 
turned Tremere into a vampire — supposedly gleaned from 
experimentation upon several Tzimisce subjects — Goratrix 
showed ambition, determination and magical acumen matching 
that of Tremere himself. It was through Goratrix’s urgings that 
Tremere accepted the hellish potion, and at Goratrix’s subtle 
cajoling that Tremere turned the rest of his followers into the 
Damned. Whenever Etrius urged caution, Goratrix advised 
action. Their oppositions served as monuments for Tremere’s 
path to immortality.
As the Tremere slowly spread their curse among select 
mortal magicians of their kind, Goratrix’s research paved the 
way for Tremere to hunt down other Kindred for their power. 
Etrius codified thaumaturgical principles with Tremere, but 
Goratrix field-tested them; every time a new innovation 
came to the fore, Goratrix was ready to risk himself in pursuit 
of the clan’s advancement. He experimented on captured 
Cainites to arrive at the solution of vampirism as a means to 


Chapter Three: The Registry
97
immortality; he sacrificed his apprentices to the undead and 
volunteered to partake of the potion first; he urged decisive 
action to cement the clan by devouring one of the Methu-
selahs or Antediluvians. Goratrix headed such research and 
traveled often to personally undertake discovery in remote 
chantries, to convert other mortals to the clan and to war 
against the hostile vampires of Eastern Europe.
Although considered a loyal son then, Goratrix’s ambi-
tions overtook him. Perhaps jealous of Tremere’s power at 
the head of the clan or aggrieved with Etrius’ patient, steady 
nature, Goratrix turned traitor during the Anarch Revolt. 
Under his tutelage, young Tremere renegades broke away to 
form “House Goratrix,” and became the Tremere antitribu of 
the Sabbat. For centuries Goratrix and his followers remained 
a thorn in the side of the main Tremere clan. The Tremere 
antitribu denounced Tremere himself, and devoted themselves 
to the principles of freedom espoused by the nascent Sabbat. 
Some rebelled against the rigid hierarchy of the Dark Ages 
Tremere, while others simply saw in Goratrix a more charis-
matic leader or a chance at personal advancement in a sect 
that denounced the manipulations of elders.
Recently, Goratrix and his heretical house met in Mexico 
City, there to perform some great ritual. All were destroyed; 
it is thought that Goratrix, too, met his end, but thousand-
year-old vampires have a disturbing tendency to survive such 
conflagrations. (See the Tremere antitribu in Chapter Two 
and Transylvania Chronicles IV.)
Aisling Sturbridge,  
High Regent of the Five Boroughs
When Tremere look for an example of the “perfect career,” 
they point to Aisling Sturbridge. This potent thaumaturge 
rose to her position meteorically and supported Tremere and 
Camarilla interests while simultaneously putting her unique 
stamp on problem-solving. Aisling operated for perhaps a 
century as a free agent before settling in New York, and then 
replacing the former regent after the Sabbat fed him to the 
fish of Sheepshead Bay.
When the Camarilla finally made its move to expand 
into New York, Aisling led Tremere operations from a heavily 
defended chantry. As a wartime leader, she was given a great 
deal of leeway in her operations, which allowed her to select 
her own help and tactics. A few commentators have noted 
wryly that such a post seemed like banishment at the time — 
shoved into the unnoticed ghetto of a wartime crisis where 
destruction was a likely outcome — but Aisling deftly turned 
matters around. Her own thaumaturgical prowess allowed her 
to construct potent magical defenses and misdirections for 
her chantry, and the lenience of the hierarchy in wartime let 
her set more liberal policy. Because her work showed results 
— experience in Eastern Europe left her familiar with the 
Tzimisce, and she methodically rooted out and countered 
Sabbat influence in the city — Aisling not only kept her 
posting, but became the recipient of many accolades when 
the Camarilla finally became the dominant sect in New York.
As a childe of the turn of the century, Aisling evades 
many of the traps of old Tremere thinking. She doesn’t 
hesitate to make alliances outside the clan, she values skills 
besides Thaumaturgy, and she deals evenly and fairly with 
people on the expectation that they’ll give her the same 
consideration in the future. While other regents look to 
“the good of the clan,” Aisling looks to what can solve 
her immediate problems, even if it means making a few 
waves among the hierarchy. She’ll promote for talent, not 
nepotism, and she will mark another Tremere as someone 
with whom she and her chantry won’t deal if the individual 
proves treacherous or duplicitous to her. Thus, she manages 
to remain a dynamic force for Tremere advancement while 
still upholding the most important rules; some circles wonder 
privately if she might not have a lordship over much of the 
northeast approaching.
See Children of the Night for more detailed information 
about Aisling Sturbridge.
Joseph Ravenfeather,  
the Anarch Regent
Background: Most Camarilla Licks would consider 
“anarch Tremere” a contradiction in terms; Tremere neonates 
would certainly think the same of “anarch regent.” Yet Jo-
seph Ravenfeather fits those descriptions and thus manages 
to showcase the clan’s flexibility in accomplishing its aims.
Originally from the Viejas reservation in southern California, 
Joseph made a name for himself through his dedicated study of 
shamanic practices. From spirit-talking to trances, he rigorously 
delved into the old mystic practices that had all but fallen from 
favor in the modern nights. Much to his surprise, he found that 
he sometimes did have visions or hear voices. Whether they were 
simply hallucinations or actual spirits, none could say; Joseph was 
far from a skilled occultist. He had drive and raw talent, though, 
which were noticed by the people who pay attention to such things.


Clanbook: Tremere
98
As a Tremere, Joseph had some difficulty adapting to undead 
existence. His holistic philosophy conflicted heavily with Kin-
dred practicalities. Eventually Joseph adapted, as strong-willed 
individuals do, and modified his beliefs to accommodate his 
condition. Many rites from his Cherokee heritage called upon 
physical endurance or hallucinatory experiences, which remain 
viable for a Kindred, with some alterations — peyote-addled 
vessels and scarification by moonlight. During his early years as 
a Kindred, he focused heavily upon reconciling spirituality with 
undeath. This attention helped him in the development not 
only of thaumaturgical skills, including the rare powers of Spirit 
Manipulation, but also in the exploration of his own morality.
Conceding the value of the Tremere pyramid, Raven-
feather took up residence in nearby San Diego. Because he 
dashed so many stereotypes others harbored regarding the 
Tremere — sociable, friendly, from a minority group and 
highly spiritual — he managed to shatter the usual anarch 
disdain for the clan. Indeed, most neonates who knew of his 
lineage and assumed that all Tremere were “spooky wizards” 
didn’t know what to make of him; he would quickly estab-
lish his own role as a mentor and father figure. Before long, 
Ravenfeather was a known (though not especially trusted) 
The Rest of the Council
Although some of the Council of Seven have appeared in other titles, they are deliberately left unnamed here. 
A Storyteller who wants to tell the tale of Transylvania Chronicles or other published materials can easily use such 
personages as they appear there; someone telling a more individualized story can just as easily create other personalities 
to suit their needs for her own chronicle. Indeed, the council’s membership is hardly a concern for most neonates, who 
have probably never heard of them in any but the vaguest collective terms and would be terrified to ever meet such a 
creature. Should the Council of Seven make any sort of appearance in a chronicle of modern neonates, the shadowy 
figures directing Tremere across entire continents would barely be comprehensible, their plans too wide-ranging and 
their influence too widespread.
In a story for elders, the councilors are consummate power brokers, vampires who have not only survived the transi-
tion from usurper magicians to undead demigods, but also husbanded the smallest and arguably most reviled clan and 
turned its resources into a very pillar of modern Kindred society. Councilors have many-layered contingency plans and 
resources that can span entire nations, should the situation warrant; even elders would do best to avoid their notice 
entirely. Nor can other Tremere be assured immunity to the attentions of the council. If a matter is grave enough to 
warrant council attention, then some Tremere somewhere must take the blame for it.
The daring group that actually wants to square off against the council, or fight to place one of their number in its 
ranks, has its work cut out for it indeed. Councilors have very potent positions, and they are surpassingly active for Kin-
dred of their age and generation. In effect, they have all the skill and resourcefulness required to survive for the better 
part of a millennium against pogroms designed to wipe out their whole clan, while simultaneously pitting agents outside 
their structure against their internal dupes, all well enough to counter the plots of Kindred who’d existed far longer than 
they. A councilor will likely work through confederates and double-blinds to betray, expose and overextend a competi-
tor’s resources, and would have substantial thaumaturgical might if by some chance a physical encounter should occur 
(although this is almost an impossibility, given the councilors’ skill at deception and distaste for the risks of personal 
combat). Furthermore, a councilor can easily offer incentives up to and including hidden diablerie, minor thaumaturgical 
instruction or a few magical trinkets in order to buy the loyalty of adversaries. Worse still, every councilor can count at 
least one or two other members of the council itself as allies (even if only by calling in boons); a troupe would effectively 
face a coterie of elders headed by a thousand-year-old fourth or fifth-generation Tremere strategic genius. But for those 
with a vendetta, a thirst for penultimate power or a consuming need for the ultimate thrill, the Council of Seven may 
present a legitimate target.
figure in San Diego’s anarch scene. He even established his 
own chantry after informing Tremere superiors of his intent, 
and solidly placed a minor Tremere influence in the area.
When Tara claimed the barony and later princedom of 
San Diego, Joseph didn’t hesitate in supporting her bid. Some 
anarchs considered him a sell-out, but for Joseph it was a matter 
of practicality. He’d funneled information about the anarchs back 
to the Tremere for several years; now he would function in a more 
formal Camarilla capacity. Still, Joseph let it be known among the 
locals that he didn’t intend to enforce Camarilla policy. Rather, 
he continued to project a laissez-faire attitude toward the anarchs, 
while he paid verbal support to Tara’s policies. End result: Tara 
garnered Tremere aid when necessary, while the anarchs felt that 
they had a sympathetic ear in the Camarilla structure.
Joseph now continues to head the San Diego chantry, 
recognized as a regent. He oversees three apprentices of 
varying skills and degrees of anarch tendency. Most of his 
current work centers on researching the Cathayans — with 
his knowledge of spirits, Joseph has uncovered some disturb-
ing allies that the Eastern Kindred brought with them. For 
now, his chantry remains an island of Tremere stability in the 
otherwise rapidly churning West Coast chaos.


Chapter Three: The Registry
99
Image: Ravenfeather does his best to set others at ease with 
casual dress. That often means blue jeans, loafers and a button-down 
shirt. However, he also affects trappings and jewelry reflecting his 
Native American heritage, usually in the form of small turquoise 
necklaces or a tastefully placed feather bundle. He’s neither os-
tentatious nor ridiculously overbearing in his cultural sensibilities.
With well-trimmed brown hair, a neat goatee and a handsome 
face, Joseph often puts people at ease. He smiles readily and carries 
himself with confidence, which makes him both attractive and 
authoritative. To younger Cainites, he often seems fatherly; with 
peers, wise and knowledgeable; to elders, useful and supportive.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re cunning, but not specifically 
nasty. Rather, you are congenial because there’s no point in 
alienating people. You are eminently comfortable with yourself 
and your skills, and you let it show. You’re also matter-of-fact 
and straightforward; you tend toward honesty and don’t boast 
about your capabilities, but you’re not above a little misleading 
information when the situation calls for it. Mostly, you spread 
an infectious cheerfulness that puts others at ease with you.
Sire: Korbin Salamanca
Nature: Conniver
Demeanor: Celebrant
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1944
Apparent Age: Early 30s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 4, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 2, Intelligence 4, Wits 2
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Brawl 1, Dodge 2, Empathy 3, Ex-
pression 3, Intimidation 1, Leadership 4, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Animal Ken 1, Drive 1, Etiquette 3, Melee 1, Survival 2
Knowledges: Academics 2, Linguistics 3 (Cherokee, Hopi, 
Latin, Spanish), Occult (Southwest medicine) 4, Politics 2
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Dominate 1, Thaumaturgy 5
Thaumaturgical Paths: Path of Blood 5, Spirit Manipulation 3, 
Weather Control 2, Lure of Flames 1
Thaumaturgical Rituals: Deflection of Wooden Doom, 
Donning the Mask of Shadows, Flesh of Fiery Touch, Splinter 
Servant, Ward versus Spirits
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 1, Resources 4, Retainers 1
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 2, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 7
Masika St. John, the CamNet Innovator
Background: Increasingly modernized apprentices have 
grown estranged from the elders, who often don’t comprehend 
the tools that a young neonate takes for granted. Nearly every 
Kindred Embraced in the last decade knows about computers, 
uses telephones and has (or had) a driver’s license or I.D. card. 
For elders who simply can’t keep up, this leads to frustration, sup-
pressed fear of the power that neonates have due to these tools 
and a concomitant backlash. For their part, neonates who chafe 
at the oppressiveness of ages-old Camarilla structure find outlets 
by playing up their own modern talents to establish niches in 
areas that elders would never think to exploit, like Internet com-
munications, space research or high-end biotech. Masika was just 
another one of the disenfranchised few, an embittered apprentice 
in Madagascar with limited opportunities for advancement, a 
background in computer science instruction and a regent who 
despised her easy ability with modern technology yet also required 
her assistance to remain at pace with the rest of the world.
Matters changed abruptly in 1998, when Masika dissemi-
nated some theories to a few apprentices who communicated 
via an Internet backbone that she’d established. Using the 
principles of Contagion and Identity, Masika theorized that 
a computer operated as a mental extension of the user, a tool 
that expanded mental properties, and thus was susceptible to 
thaumaturgical manipulation. In only a few months, she’d 
worked out the rudiments of the new Path of Technomancy, 
and outlined the principles to several other apprentices before 
her regent (and theirs) discovered her actions.
At first, Masika’s regent was tempted to do away with the 
young rebel, but he recognized that her path could have poten-
tial and waited to see how the pontifices and councilors would 
react. Much to the surprise of conservative Tremere elements, 
the path was entered into files in Forstchritt and approved as a 
useful tool, though individual lords or regents still sometimes 
frowned upon and forbade this extension of Thaumaturgy into 
areas they couldn’t comprehend. Masika became something of 
a celebrity among other apprentices; she’d managed to develop 
a completely new path in a direction different from any other 
line of research, a feat that hadn’t been done by an apprentice 
in a century. She was duly promoted within the hierarchy, but 
her regent continues to watch carefully for signs of rebellious-
ness — what he can’t understand, he fears, and Masika now 


Clanbook: Tremere
100
neonates or by herself, though, she favors loose blue jeans 
and brightly striped sweaters.
Roleplaying Hints: Mostly, you just want to keep doing 
the same things you’ve always done: teach evening classes in 
computer science, surf the ‘Net, chat up weird ideas, maintain 
a comfortable existence. Now you’re at the center of attention, 
and you’re not sure how to handle it. Some other Kindred 
have decided to “use” you, but you aren’t going to make any 
revolutionary speeches on someone else’s behalf, nor do you 
intend to decry your own innovations.
Sire: Anton Devereaux
Nature: Innovator
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Generation: 13th
Embrace: 1985
Apparent Age: Late 20s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 1
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 4, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 1, Empathy 3, Expression 4, 
Instruction 2, Intimidation 1, Leadership 3, Streetwise 1, 
Subterfuge 2
Skills: Crafts 3, Drive 2, Etiquette 2
Knowledges: Academics 3, Computer (programming) 5, Oc-
cult (technomancy) 4, Science (conduction) 4
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Dominate 1, Thaumaturgy 5
Thaumaturgy Paths: Path of Blood 5, Path of Technomancy 5
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 4, Resources 4, Retainers 1
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 4
has allies and sycophants who think that her innovation will 
quickly reap her more position and standing.
For her part, Masika continues to organize other young 
Kindred on the Internet, chatting with Tremere apprentices 
and swapping MP3s as often as thaumaturgical rituals. She’s 
found herself thrust into the limelight, and many elders use 
her as a focal point for blame or guilt that they feel over their 
inability to adapt to the modern world — she’s a figurehead 
of all the things that modern neonates can do but that elders 
don’t understand. This also means that she can’t be easily 
dismissed. Only now is she beginning to realize that this gives 
her a sort of clout, and in the next few years Masika may seek 
additional allies to form a more radical faction pressing for 
advancement of neonates like herself. Then again, she may 
decide that bucking the hierarchy is impossible and settle into 
a more conservative image. (In fact, the players’ characters 
could be involved in such deliberations, and Masika could 
be a useful contact but also a magnet for trouble from elders.)
Thaumaturgical innovators in the Tremere clan note that 
the development of new forms of Thaumaturgy often requires 
years, if not decades, of trial and development. Masika may 
simply be naturally talented, but conspiratorially minded 
Kindred argue that perhaps her discovery was helped along 
by some outside influence, perhaps even one of which she 
was unaware. Certainly her regent didn’t have the skills to 
develop Technomancy, but perhaps some Methuselah cata-
lyzed her own computer skills with his own thaumaturgical 
knowledge — or maybe she really is that talented.
Image: Masika realizes that she must maintain a respect-
able image among the more traditional Tremere, so she takes 
pains to dress conservatively — charcoal suit, hair pulled into 
a bun and no makeup. When relaxing with other modern 


™
One Step Toward Clan 
Blood Bond
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-56504-254-9
WW2357  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
TM
