TM
k


Contents
1
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
By Lucien Soulban and James Stewart


Clanbook: Tzimisce
2
Credits
Written by: Lucien Soulban and James Stewart
Additional Material by: Jess Heinig
Developed by: Justin Achilli
Editor: John Chambers
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten
Interior Art: Guy Davis, Leif Jones, Vince Locke, Matt 
Mitchell and Christopher Shy
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design:Becky Jollensten
Intern: Matthew O’Connor
Special Thanks, Rave 
Edition
Oh, never mind. Like I remember.
Yarblockos!
That nasty, villainous puke seat.
© 2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher 
is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced 
for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the 
Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, 
Hunter the Reckoning, World of Darkness and Aberrant 
are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the 
Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild 
West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, 
Trinity, Children of the Night and Clanbook Tzimisce are 
trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted 
by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product in 
these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright 
concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and 
themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction 
and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader dis-
cretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Contents
Introduction: Winter Fiend
Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
Chapter Three: Among Fiends
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
4
8
38
74


Clanbook: Tzimisce
4


Winter Fiend
5
November 22nd, 1942 – Sunday 
The landscape was a white vastness, a world without a horizon 
to separate the earth from the choking mist of the flat Russian 
steppe. Obergefreiter Dietrich Walling, officer in Hitler’s vaunted 
Wehrmacht, surveyed the once-proud siege engine of the 22nd Panzer 
Division. His whitewashed Panzerkampfwagen IV lay alone and 
half-buried by snowdrifts. The OKW recruitment posters never 
showed the soldiers standing around tanks, watching them burn 
for the brief moments they pushed away the cold. 
The remnants of the panzer division ran out of petrol about 
150 kilometers west of Volgograde, near the indentation of the River 
Chir. The Russian counteroffensive in the Stalingrad campaign 
began three days ago when a thick mist strangled visibility from 
the air and biting cold scattered warmth to the four corners. 
Artillery flashed and thundered in muffled fury, and engaging 
tanks collided with one another in a clumsy ballet of the blind. 
The air was thicker than milk, but the Russian 8th Cavalry still 
surrounded the beleaguered 22nd Division and picked away with 
their snipers, the T-34 tanks. Dietrich’s group finally smashed 
through the blockade yesterday and vanished into the steppes. Now, 
broken and dying, they waited for the Russians. The artillery 
and tank thunder, however, drifted away with morning, leaving 
the landscape unerringly silent beneath a pissy soup of white. 
Kanonier Holden — Dietrich’s gunner and the only other 
survivor from his Panzer IV — stumbled out from the snow-
burdened curtain of air. He looked fresh out of Hitlerjugend, 
with only a tuft of unshaved fuzz on his chin and an oil-smeared 
face soiling his youthful Aryan looks. A thigh-length overcoat of 
brown sheepskin hung loosely from his bony shoulders. He was 
unraveling a towline from a large spool.
“What are you doing?” Dietrich asked. Grizzled with facial 
growth and dirt that highlighted premature wrinkles, he wore a 
black field jacket and sheepskin cap. Otherwise, he could have cut 
a handsome figure, civilization permitting. 
“I found this on a Tiger about 20 meters northeast of here. 
I hooked the other tanks together, in case we needed to find each 
other in this squall. Leutnant Habsmann ordered me­—”
“Habsmann? Is that rat-faced bastard still alive?” Dietrich 
spat. “I’m surprised they didn’t ship him out to Poland with the 
rest of the Jews.”
“Sir, he’s not—” 
“I know what he says, you idiot!” Dietrich raged. “But he’s 
not Aryan either. He may have fooled the Reich Agency for 
Genealogy, but you can see the Semite blood in him. It’s in his 
sloped brow, his frizzy black hair and his hooked nose. Didn’t they 
teach you that in Hitlerjugend?”
“Yes, sir, they did, but I can’t… I can’t disobey Habsmann. 
He outranks us both. Also, he wants us to gather at his Tiger. He 
says if we share the warmth, we’ll less likely freeze.”
“You go if you want, but I won’t make it easier for the Rus-
sians to find us. I’m staying here.”
Holden’s expression betrayed all his concerns. Still, he said 
nothing and tethered the towline to the panzer’s forward cable hooks. 
“Continue with your report. What else did you see out there 
aside from that mongrel Habsmann?”
“Well,” Holden continued nervously, “I finished cataloguing the 
condition of the tanks around us, but I don’t have paper to write on.”
Dietrich ignored his subordinate. It was likelier the Kanonier 
stuffed whatever paper he had into his pants to keep himself warm. 
“…five tanks scattered throughout the area…”
This was a war of unspoken truths. 
“…no petrol in any of them…”
Dietrich said nothing about the Balkan sheepskin cap 
Holden had lifted from a dead Romanian officer, and Holden 
said nothing about Dietrich’s black field jacket decorated with 
an Unteroffizier’s chevrons. 
“…one Panzer III is carrying dead soldiers…”
This was a far cry from the proud German phalanx that 
swept through the Ukraine, freeing places like Izyum and Svatovo 
from Communism. The villagers, winnowed by famine, heralded 
the Wehrmacht’s arrival as the new Crusade come to sweep the 
Antichrist Stalin from his throne of bones. They took the German 
black crosses to mean hope, and Dietrich took their hope to mean 
victory. That belief died at the altar of Stalingrad.
“…face torn off.”
“What? Repeat that!” Dietrich ordered when he realized he’d 
missed something important.
“I found a Panzer III covered with dead Romanian soldiers. 
They blocked the hatches. I tried removing the soldiers to get into 
the tank, but they were frozen to the metal. I pulled too hard on 
one. I… I think I tore his face off.”
“You think?”
“Well, yes. I mean, he couldn’t have looked that way before, sir.”
“Who was in the tank?”
“I don’t know. Frozen corpses covered the hatches and stor-
age bins.”
“So? Pull the corpses off.”
“I… but…. Won’t I tear off their faces, sir?”
“Have you ever skinned a rabbit?”
“Uh, yes… yes, sir.”
“This is no different. At least rabbits serve a purpose. Go back, 
pull off the corpses, and scavenge what you can. Don’t forget to 
check the fuel tanks under the floor. We can’t serve our Führer 
by dying here.”
Holden was shocked a moment, then nodded blindly before 
setting off into the curtain of white.
“And Holden,” Dietrich added, “say nothing to Habsmann. 
If you find anything, we’ll barely have enough for ourselves. 
Understood?”
***
Two hours had passed since Holden had left, and now, 
Obergefreiter Walling suspected his subordinate had abandoned 
him in favor of Habsmann. Dietrich rested in the commander’s 
chair and stretched his legs against the main gun’s recoil guard. 
He sat in dried blood, but the thought never bothered him. Ober-
leutnant Westermayer deserved that sniper bullet when he stood 
on his chair and stuck his head out from the turret hatch. He was 
already dead when he tumbled back through and spattered the 
Winter Fiend


Clanbook: Tzimisce
6
interior with thick clots of blood. At the time, Dietrich ignored the 
crimson gore on his overalls and continued steering. That was a 
lifetime ago, last week. Dietrich found he grew more inured against 
the violence with each minute. Not even the bits of flesh or blood 
encrusted on his clothing bothered him anymore. 
A bitter night chill had settled over the region, forcing Dietrich 
back into the black interior of his tank for shelter. Although the 
hatches, pistol ports and cupola’s vision slots were all closed, the 
heat still escaped like water through a sieve. Dietrich marveled at 
how this blade of the Wehrmacht could resist Russian bullets and 
shells but couldn’t keep out the Soviet Empire’s greatest soldier, 
“General Frost.” Dietrich didn’t want to freeze, but he’d long run 
out of canned heat and had nothing to burn with his lighter. If he 
wanted to survive, he’d have to leave the sanctuary of his panzer and 
search the nearby vehicles. Holden mentioned something about five 
other tanks; one of them probably had something worth scavenging, 
but he’d have to take care not to approach Habsmann’s Tiger. 
Dietrich checked the clip on the Sturmgewehr .44 machine 
pistol and was about to open the hatch when something darkened 
the turret’s glass vision blocks. Instinctively, Dietrich backed away 
into the low-ceiling forward compartment, where he bumped into 
the driver’s seat. It couldn’t be Holden or any other soldier in the 
division, Dietrich thought. They all knew to rap their wrenches or 
gun butts on the hatch before entering lest they find their heads 
blown off by edgy panzer crews. Someone peered inside, but it was 
too dark to see anything. 
A hiss of cold air slipped into the tank, along with a faint 
wash of winter white — the intruder opened the cupola hatch. 
Dietrich felt the pit of his stomach drop away and his blood 
plummet along with it like a waterfall. Some primordial instinct 
in the back of his skull screamed for Dietrich to run. This wasn’t 
the enemy; this was a hunter.
Carefully, Dietrich reached behind him and ran his fingers 
along the recess in the ceiling. The cupola’s hatch was completely 
pulled back. Small eddies of fine frost drifted through the opening 
and settled over the reddish-brown interior. Dietrich’s questing 
fingers snagged a latch. He pushed it gently, painfully aware of 
the low groan it made, but the driver’s escape hatch finally opened 
with a satisfying pop. More cold air slipped through and filled the 
forward compartment. Quietly, Dietrich positioned himself beneath 
his exit. He could see a pair of milky-white… hands… that tapered 
off into serrated claws slip past the cupola’s hatch. A bear? A clever 
wolf? Whatever was coming in was doing so head first. Dietrich 
didn’t wait around to see the creature’s face; he pushed off the 
driver’s chair, through the hatch and into the bristling, cold air. 
With visibility nearly gone, the howling wind swept away 
all noise and claimed it as its own. Dietrich looked back at the 
white-washed turret just in time to see black jackboots slip through 
the hatch. Dietrich leapt off the tank and grabbed the towline 
linking him to the Tiger. Holding on, he pushed his way through 
the knee-deep drifts, into the worsening storm.
***
The drifts grew deeper, slowing Dietrich down, but he pushed 
through the cold. After what seemed forever, Dietrich arrived 
at the Tiger. It was a petrol guzzler and ungraceful. It wasn’t 
called a “Furniture Van” for its elegance. Even now, half hidden 
in a growing snowdrift, it looked unwieldy and ugly. Patches of 
zimmerit, anti-magnetic mine paste, had fallen away, revealing 
a mottling of gray. The turret’s side-hatch stood wide open. Di-
etrich pulled himself out of the snow and onto the Tiger’s skirt. 
He peered inside the empty tank. The crew must be dead, thought 
Dietrich, but he had little concern for them now, wherever they 
were. Dietrich exited and unhooked one of the four towlines that 
led him furthest from his own panzer. He took the loose towline 
and pulled himself through the snow while winding the excess 
cable around his shoulder. 
Whatever stalked him would probably go after the other 
vehicles still tethered to the Tiger, leaving Dietrich safe and alone 
in his isolated tank. He knew his actions would cost the lives of 
his allies, but that was a sacrifice he was willing to make on their 
behalf. Besides, not a one was loyal to Germany anymore. Since 
Stalingrad, the soldiers privately scoffed at the weekly propaganda 
reports from the Ministry for Public Enlightenment. If the war 
faltered, it was because Hitler allowed lesser species to fight alongside 
the German Volk and because weak men with weak blood fought on 
the frontlines. Indignant and angry, Dietrich struggled through 
the snow, cursing the Reich for betraying its own dreams.
***
The Panzer III was six tons smaller than Dietrich’s Kampf-
wagen, but it had been refitted with a 50mm gun. Still, snowdrifts 
washed up on its skirt, miring it until next spring. Painted white, 
it was nearly lost against the blizzard. The only feature that stood 
out against its surface were 10 Romanians covering the tank like 
maggots on a corpse. They were all facedown, dead and stuck to the 
exposed metal, blocking the four major hatches, Dietrich realized, 
along with the air intake and exhaust ports. Somebody positioned 
them deliberately, and for a moment, Dietrich found himself ap-
preciating the cold and barren logic that required such action. 
“I’ve walked into the lion’s den,” Dietrich muttered. Whatever 
was stalking his division had made his home here, but with the 
storm already covering his trail, Dietrich had no hope of find-
ing his way back. This panzer was his only salvation. “Besides,” 
Dietrich continued to himself, “whatever barred the hatches did 
so for a reason.” If it was protecting something, then it was worth 
Dietrich’s attention.
Dietrich dropped the cable and scrambled up to the soldier 
hunched over the commander’s hatch. With a firm grip on his 
shoulders, Dietrich tried prying him off the tank. The corpse’s 
face came off in stiff strips, leaving behind patches of flesh on the 
metal, but the body remained stuck; something had mauled his face 
beyond recognition, ripping open his jacket and winter clothing as 
well. The soldier’s exposed stomach and chest were likewise frozen to 
metal, but not in the way Dietrich expected. The soldier appeared 
anchored to the metal, with his exposed flesh hooked or melted into 
the hatch lining. Dietrich didn’t care. They were only Romanian. 
Dietrich took out his knife and cut away at the flesh, separat-
ing the corpse from the hatch. Just like skinning rabbits. After a 
few moments of cutting and sawing, he used the knifepoint to dig 
out the flesh in the lining before finally opening the cupola’s hatch. 
A wave of warm air and the smell of butcher-shop viscera washed 
over him. The interior was humid. Half-frozen and minutes away 
from frostbite, Dietrich dropped into the tank, slamming the hatch 
shut with a loud clang on his way down. Warmth enveloped him.
A noxious mix of offal and innards filled the pitch-black 
interior, but that didn’t bother Dietrich terribly. He’d spent his 
summers on a Kümmritz sheep farm south of Berlin and was 
inured to the smell of death. It was the low mewling and sobbing 
all around him that grated on his nerves. Dietrich fumbled for his 


Winter Fiend
7
lighter and lit it up. The shadows danced into flickers, darkening 
the nooks, crannies and corners of the panzer’s guts. That’s when 
he found the other survivors. 
The interior of the tank was the Devil’s abattoir. Holden, 
Habsmann and at least four other soldiers lay stretched out over 
the equipment, chairs, ammunition bins, walls, ceiling and floor. 
Their bodies had the consistency of warm tallow — drooping and 
limp. It was as though Satan had smeared them across Creation’s 
face with his thumb. Five different intestines braided around each 
other and snaked through the interior like Christmas tinsel, while 
flayed flesh stretched over the walls. More shocking, perhaps, was 
that the soldiers had all been turned inside out, yet they still 
seemed to live. Organs pulsed and pumped their precious fluids 
while they hung from the recoil guard and lay draped over and 
around the chairs. The mewling came from the flattened faces 
of Holden and the others. With deflated mouths and vocal cords 
stretched like washed linen, they could do no more than cry and 
gurgle. Annunciation was a lost gift.
Dietrich shook his head in amazement and muttered, “Mag-
nificent.” Despite the carnage, it possessed a functional aesthetic 
often lost on the battlefield. Dietrich had seen his share of severed 
limbs and shrapnel-eviscerated comrades, but that was fate alone. 
This was pure function and cold-hearted brilliance. Dietrich’s 
father told him stories about how ancient hunters split open deer 
and slept in their innards for warmth when trapped by blizzards. 
This was practicality taken to the extreme. The tank’s interior 
had been covered with gutted but living soldiers whose exposed 
innards and blood vessels provided warmth. The soldiers outside 
sealed in any escaping heat. This was calculated and perfect 
pragmatism. This was what the German army lacked to carry 
out the Thousand-Year Reich. 
“Aren’t you going to salute a superior officer?” a voice asked. 
It was languid, almost slippery.
Dietrich spun around, nearly killing the lighter’s meager 
tongue. Sitting in the radio operator’s chair and shadowed by a 
low ceiling, sat an SS-Brigadefuhrer und Generalmajor. Darkness 
covered the man’s face, but Dietrich could see the white undershirt 
beneath the black uniform, the wet field-gray greatcoat with black 
collar, double-lightning bolt lapels, the flared breeches and wet, 
black jackboots. On his lap rested a field-gray cap with a silver 
skull and crossbones pin. 
 “I would,” Dietrich ventured, “if I didn’t think you were 
going to try and kill me. Or should I say tried?” 
“You’re an eel, I’ll give you that. Sneaking out of your panzer 
was wise, but I was impressed with the way you took the line to 
this tank. You were hoping I’d go after the others, weren’t you?”
“You saw me?” Dietrich asked doubtfully. “How? I left you 
behind.”
“Well, you didn’t summon this storm, did you?” 
“And you did?” Dietrich sneered. 
The Generalmajor leaned forward, allowing the light to touch 
his face. He was stunning, nearly painful in Aryan perfection. 
His hair was gold silk against alabaster skin, his nose and lips 
thin and imperial, his cheeks were cut of marble, and his Rhine-
blue eyes carried the wolf’s glare. His face was perfect and without 
deficiency; he embodied the idealized Nordic warrior Himmler 
so proudly espoused in his elite Schutzstaffel. His stare whittled 
Dietrich to the bone; it was an intrepid and cruel heart that cast 
that gaze. Suddenly, Dietrich realized that there was nothing this 
creature couldn’t do.
“The new man is among us!” Dietrich mumbled, quoting 
Hermann Rauschning’s Hitler Speaks. “…I will tell you a secret. 
I have seen the vision of the new man — fearless and formidable…”
“…I shrank from him,” the Generalmajor concluded. 
“You read Hitler Speaks?”
“It was… entertaining,” the Generalmajor allowed.
“I remember a time,” Dietrich ventured, “when I would have 
followed the Führer into Hell.”
“And now?”
“I’ve seen what it looks like…. Russia has been one defeat 
after another because of Hitler. He’s betrayed his promises to us.”
“You speak treason.”
“Then we are both on the firing line,” Dietrich grinned with 
a look to Holden and the others. “What are you?” he finally asked.
“Can you not see it in my face?” the Generalmajor exclaimed 
with a feral smile. “I am the spirit of your ancestors given blood. 
I am Nordic heritage brought to the fore.”
“There’s more to it than that,” Dietrich ventured.
“Yes there is, but that will come in due time. I’ve decided to 
spare you. I appreciate your cunning. It might just help us both 
survive.”
“What do you mean?”
“Hitler’s war isn’t our war. Ours is more ancient in the re-
membering. This advance into Russia was an attempt to regain 
soil lost to us since the red storm swept Russia. Unfortunately, we 
relied on your kind to fight for us, and that misplaced trust has 
cost us. Now I must return empty-handed. You’re right; Hitler, 
Himmler and the rest of them have betrayed you, but they are of 
no consequence. They served their purpose.”
“But why are you here, in this desolate place?”
“I was fighting my enemies when the Russian counteroffensive 
began,” the Generalmajor proclaimed. “I protected this place for 
the while it took me to rest, stay warm and regain my… strength. 
I’m ready to leave. You were going to be my last meal, but you 
make a worthier Unteroffizier.”
“Willingly, though I don’t know who I serve or why.”
“That too will come in time, but I’m offering you the chance 
for a purity you’ve never known. You can be like me, without 
impediment or soiled body. I offer perfection of thought. That is 
all you need know for now.”
“If I abandon the army, I will be shot as a deserter.”
“No,” the Generalmajor offered. “As far as they know, you died 
here, tonight. As far as you’re concerned,” he added with a fanged 
grin, “they are right.” The Generalmajor moved with a speed that 
killed Dietrich’s flame, dousing the tank in darkness. He slammed 
the Obergefreiter down on his back hard. Hot needles ripped into 
Dietrich’s neck, and he felt his blood explode through the wound in 
a burning — but horrifically thrilling — torrent. Holden mewled 
in his ear, but Dietrich could hear only the waterfall rush of blood 
thunder in his head. The thunder drifted away like Russian tanks 
in the mist, however, and Dietrich realized he was shivering from 
the impossible cold that gripped his bones — he was dying. That’s 
when the Generalmajor pressed his lips against Dietrich’s and spit 
in his mouth. Dietrich’s world exploded in a scream.  


Clanbook: Tzimisce
8


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
9
Chapter One:  
A Rabble of Fiends
It is a grave tragedy to die young so we pray, “May we be sufficiently ripe before we are eaten up by death…”
— Baba Ifa Karade, Odu Ethics of Edi: The Handbook of Yoruba Religious Concepts
We are Tzimisce….
What a bucket of shit! We were united for as long as it 
took Tzimisce to Embrace his first progeny. After that, all 
bets were off. You’ll also hear the clans talk about Enoch 
and how we all existed “as one,” like some Disney take on 
Cainites. Christ, Enoch was Caine’s petting zoo filled with 
mortals and nothing more.
You think you know the Damned. You don’t know shit. 
What you’re about to learn isn’t a lesson, it’s a correction. 
Forget the ankle-grabbing Carthaginians or the imperial glory 
of Rome; they died for a damn good reason. Our history 
has little to do with the mundane world and everything to do 
with the Tzimisce. We’re called Fiends for a good reason. 
Face it Brothers and Sisters in Caine, that’s what we are. 
It’s time you understood why.
— The Eye, priest of the Seven Hands pack
Tzimisce Lexicon
Learn these terms well, for many Fiends remember 
their usage even in the modern nights.
Azhi Dahaka: Azhi Dahaka is Persian for the 
three-headed dragon of the demon Ahriman. To the 
Tzimisce, it is the Metamorphosist’s Holy Grail, an en-
lightened and ultimate state of being, possibly brought 
on by extensive use of Vicissitude. 
bogatyri: “elder valiant champions,” or a reference 
to Tzimisce’s quest-knights.
boyars: nobles or nobility.
knezi: a lesser landowner than a Tzimisce voivode. 
Knezi supplied the main fighting force against the clan’s 
elders during the Anarch Revolt. In the modern nights, 
it is a title for any Tzimisce who makes claim to nobil-
ity. As such, it is no longer as respected as it once was.
koldun: Tzimisce spellcrafters who employ elemen-
tal and spirit magic.
manse: a Tzimisce aristocrat’s keep or place of power 
from which he rules. In modern parlance, a manse may 
simply be an opulent (or especially morbid) haven.
szlachta: although the specific term means “gentry,” 
szlachta are soldiers, spies, bodyguards and protectors of 
the Tzimisce. Modified to serve, these ghouls are tough, 
smart and deadly.
tirsa: land or domain.
voivode: typically, a Tzimisce landholder or lord, the 
term is strangely nebulous. Tzimisce of any significant 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
10
power or territorial holdings often use this title, though 
young clan members shy away from such epitaphs. 
vozhd: a fading practice among contemporary Tzi-
misce, vozhd are lobotomized amalgamations of many 
lesser ghouls. Through Vicissitude and koldunic rituals, 
the ghouls become one entity with the simple duty to 
maim and destroy whatever stands in its way. 
zadruga: “joint family,” whereby all the relatives 
of the ruler live together under strict familial bonds. 
Also, the ancient name for revenant families, still used 
tonight by elder Tzimisce. 
zulo form: a Tzimisce’s monstrous form, brought on 
through an advanced understanding of Vicissitude. The Fiends 
employ this shape in battle or to intimidate their enemies.
The Progenitor’s 
Legacy
As told by Titus Villicent, consultant to the consistory
So you wish to know your past, back to the Eldest’s 
part in this divine dance? It began in Enoch, the city of 
Caine’s making and his attempt at reparations to the 
Almighty. He had already sired thrice in a fit of loneliness 
and watched his blood scatter further into the nascent 
clans. Perhaps he foresaw the inevitability of his actions, 
but if he didn’t, then [Tzimisce] itself certainly noticed. 
Regardless of their claims and popular outsider ac-
counts, the Eldest and, thus, its childer emerged from 
between the harlot legs of the Tigris and Euphrates and 
not the Carpathians. In Enoch’s early nights, when 
skeletons of builder’s wood served as the city’s crude 
battlements and the Great Flood echoed in the distant 
millennium, Caine had just Embraced Ynosh the Law-
giver, the first of his childer. Ynosh, also known as Enoch, 
nearly swallowed by the howling of his heart, sought to 
rid himself of chaotic impurities that he believed bound 
him to the Beast. Without the tethers, the Beast’s grip 
would weaken, and it would perish. 
Through effort and force of will, Ynosh focused the 
most protean and primordial seeds of his flesh and spit 
them into a mortal vessel — [Tzimisce], a magician and 
seer of some repute. Ynosh intended to kill the Eldest 
as carrier of his accursed seeds, his most wild and fierce 
aspects. Instead, the Eldest emerged intact and not the 
feral Beast Ynosh feared. In a fit of compassion, the 
Lawgiver spared the Antediluvian, while reasoning 
out the error of his assumptions. Certainly, the Beast 
howled in both their hearts, but the Eldest was not the 
monster Ynosh anticipated, at least not visibly. 
To its sire’s surprise, the Eldest suffered no greater 
avarice or degeneration than that of its siblings. Already 
strong, it possessed a fluid nature and perception and 
controlled flesh like living clay — full of potential within 
the sculptor’s hands. More so, the Eldest realized it held 
no anchored physical identity. Like quicksilver, its coun-
tenance flowed from one mask to the next. Ynosh, in his 
attempt to excise his own weaknesses, transmogrified the 
Beast’s marks upon his body and spirit into physical form, 
but the Beast also brought with it gifts like intuition, whim, 
expression, imagination and, most importantly, growth. 
Tzimisce, whether one or all, bore these successfully.
The Eldest counted itself among the first Antedilu-
vians, though it remained apart from them. In its eyes, 
the other Cainites stagnated in development. They 
possessed no potential to grow or become greater than 
when their sires Embraced them. The Eldest, on the 
other hand, an oracle in its mortal days, expressed the 
gamut of evolution’s whims with wondrous flourish. It 
became the yesterday, now and tomorrow of human-
ity’s progress, becoming instead of foretelling. It saw 
where destiny intended them to go. Caine’s childer 
and grandchilder, however, possessed no such promise. 
Mortals grew stronger, while we remained stagnant or 
grew weaker. Eventually, mortals would rule, forcing the 
Damned to hide in their shadows. That was inevitable.
Conversely, the Eldest sensed the change in itself 
and in other Cainites, one of minute metamorphosis 
goaded by the Beast. At first, the Eldest’s thirst allowed 
it to sup from the necks of mortal and beast alike. Then, 
its thirst demanded more. No longer satisfied with one 
vessel or a score of herds, the Eldest longed for thicker 
and richer blood; it knew only its progeny would eventu-
ally satisfy it. The Eldest realized the burden of drinking 
blood would only worsen with each decade. Eventually, 
the thirst would preclude the blood of animal vessels 
and that of mortals. Only the infanticide of progeny 
could sustain the Eldest, and when that time ended, 
the Eldest itself would perish. 
Distraught over its tethered existence, the Eldest 
spent a mortal’s age in seclusion and meditation, shifting 
The Avatar of Change
Azhi Dahaka, Dracon, Illuyankas, Dracula and 
Leviathan; all dragons. You wonder why this beast 
in particular factors so heavily in our mythology. 
It’s simple, really. Since humanity’s infancy, dragons 
have plagued its legends. The kine feared these great 
serpents, but to the Tzimisce, they represented grand 
change. Dragons are harbingers of transformation 
at the edge of chaos and forever in motion with spi-
raling and sinuous forms. It is not their appearance 
that appeals to us, but their potential for chrysalis 
— and beyond. They are living embodiments of a 
change we have yet to truly realize.


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
11
and flying through shapes of mortal and legend alike, 
seeking out a form free of the accursed thirst. It studied 
the scrolls that once gifted it with spellcraft, hoping to 
find answers within its fading mortal gifts. It mattered 
little, however, for the thirst came of the Beast, and 
it drowned all considerations. The Eldest could not 
escape, for while it changed forms, it could not change 
its essence. Cruel fate deprived it of that one saving 
grace mortals possessed: adaptation as a tool of survival. 
Leaving Enoch
Unlike its growing flock of cousins, the Eldest had 
no interest in guiding the mortal masses or glorifying 
Caine’s name. More so, it did not aspire to protect the 
kine, not when they were both food and canvas to it. 
The others frowned when the Eldest demonstrated how 
easily it played, wove and laced their flesh and sinew like 
yarn on a loom. They bemoaned its gifts after it twisted 
[Nosferatu’s] flesh into the hideous mockery of beauty now 
shared by the entire clan. They secretly consorted with 
it as [Toreador] had done to earn her uncanny elegance. 
The Eldest existed among the unimaginative, while its 
siblings [Brujah] and Mekhet played shadow games with 
mortals, delighting in their own cunning and agendas.
The Eldest knew of the kine’s potential and grew 
angry that the others stubbornly defined themselves in 
mortal terms without understanding humanity’s greatest 
strength, mutability. Only it appreciated kine as both meal 
and inspiration, and thus, only it deserved humanity for 
itself. The Eldest wished to delimit itself according to its 
destiny, as opposed to what it might be now, and mortals 
were key to that expression. The Eldest shifted through 
physical forms easily, but it lacked that final adaptation 
to save it from its thirst, its Beast. To that end, the Eldest 
abandoned Enoch, knowing its answers lay in the pri-
mordial world, where Caine possessed no influence and 
where mortals were not protected like lovers or herded 
like sheep. It needed to witness humanity’s struggle for 
survival and even be responsible for humanity’s hardships. 
Only then, the Eldest believed, would it understand what 
it lacked to escape its fate. 
The Eldest journeyed the lands before humanity 
named them, following where its atrophying gifts as seer 
nudged it. It first ventured east, to the birthplace of the 
sun, where it cursed Kartarirya with unlife. It Embraced 
not from loneliness (in itself, it had all the company it 
wished), but because it needed vessels through which to 
explore the infinite possibilities and forms of adaptation. 
With Kartarirya, the Eldest discovered its ability to share 
its progeny’s senses. Thus, in each of its offspring, the Eldest 
bestowed a multitude of curses beyond damning them with 
unlife. It divested in them a portion of its mutable spirit 
in the form of a sacrament, its own flesh. Its vitae hid its 
essence, which granted the powers of flesh-shaping and 
bestowed the Antediluvian’s childer with the ability to 
make what they would of their physical forms. In turn, 
this bond allowed the Eldest expression through each of 
its most-gifted childer. The Eldest secretly became legion-
fold, allowing it to take host in chosen descendents and 
reap the knowledge of their exploration.
On the Eldest’s return journey through the Fertile Cres-
cent, it took a second progeny in Gallod, a tribal chieftain, 
to monitor the events in the Enoch. During its subsequent 
journeys, however, the Eldest discovered the tribes of hu-
manity thinned in the western forests, thus depriving it of 
sustenance. It a fit of hungered frenzy, the Eldest revealed 
the last of its malignant curses when, from leagues afar, it 
consumed Gallod inside out. The sacrament that bestowed 
unlife and allowed the Eldest to take root in its progeny also 
allowed it to devour its childer, scouring them out like an 
undead consumption. This is the clan’s greatest curse, for 
should the Eldest fall to the Beast’s thirst, then it will devour 
its childer from afar like an unseen demon.
Kupala
Having learned its lesson from Gallod, the Eldest 
gathered tribes of mortals during its travels, so that it 
would never want for vitae again. Along its journeys, it 
Embraced those who best fit its own questing spirit. It 
made a childe of Yorak in the forested foothills of the 
Carpathians and Byelobog in the northern wastes of 
Europe. Along Africa’s coast, it took a warrior named 
Demdemeh, who subsequently vanished into the pri-
mordial African heartland to pursue his fate; whilst in 
Cypriot isle, the Eldest welcomed the creature known 
only as the Dracon into the fold.
The world may have been open to the Eldest, but it 
eventually favored the lands of Yorak, deep within the 
Carpathians’ bosom. It did not know why the mountain 
chain proved so alluring, but this domain entranced the 
Eldest with its siren call. It even returned to studying 
mortal magics again after a century of disuse, even though 
its gifts remained a pale shadow of Cainite potential. 
A Rant
This is bullshit. Are you telling me we’re actually 
jealous of mortals? Fine, we’re still looking for that 
pure seed of creativity that allows for true growth, but 
this defeatist attitude is totally Camarilla. Do we even 
know if this “seed” actually exists, or is this another 
Antediluvian ploy to keep our wheels spinning? We’re 
Damned Brothers and Sisters… why the hell are we 
wasting time with “evolution?” We don’t grow! We 
decay! We’re fucking dead!
— The Spine, abbot of the Seven Hands pack


Clanbook: Tzimisce
12
To the east, Enoch still flourished, and its host childer 
remained close enough to touch Caine’s shadow. Europe 
was arena to the Tzimisce alone. Hence, the clan knew 
these domains as its own before others did. It spread across 
the Great European Plain that stretched from Eastern 
Siberia, across the Urals and the Volga Basin to finally 
touch the virgin shores of the Atlantic. The Tzimisce 
chose their lands well, for the tribes spreading west 
used the European Plain and Danube Basin to disperse 
across the continent. In particular, the plains south of 
the inviolable Pripet Marshes and those north of the 
Pindus Range became the twin arteries for kine tribes 
moving through the region. The fist of the Carpathians 
provided a chokehold on the traffic with the Pindus 
Mountains in Greece and the icy shores of the Baltic. 
The Tzimisce “tithed” the mortal flood flowing past 
them. All was not blest, however, for the Fiends did 
not claim sole kingship over the lands. Lupines, still 
potent from the chaste wilderness, fought the clan for 
every forest corner and mountain peak. As powerful 
as the Tzimisce were, they still suffered greatly. The 
Lupines even harried the great Antediluvian itself and 
threatened to rout the entire clan back to Caine’s feet. 
The Lupines could not deter the Eldest, however. The 
Tzimisce progenitor felt an affinity with the Carpathians, 
for something within them touched upon its atrophied 
gifts as mortal seer, empowering its dreams once again. 
The Eldest refused to abandon whatever whispered to 
it while it slumbered, and eventually, learned how to 
speak to the spirit of the mountains, the great beast 
known as Kupala.
Kupala and the Lupines were enemies from the most 
ancient of times. The Lupines eventually entrapped it 
within the Carpathians, verdant forest grew up around 
it. Now Kupala wished for release and spoke to the El-
dest through its dreams. The spirit of the land offered 
its hand in allegiance against their common enemies 
in exchange for the Tzimisce releasing Kupala from 
its prison deep within the Carpathians’ spine. The 
Antediluvian agreed and spent the next year exploring 
the mountain’s forgotten crags, while Kupala taught 
the Eldest magic it thought lost following its Embrace. 
The Eldest, in turn, passed the lessons on to its most 
powerful childer and used them in the great congress 
that freed Kupala itself.
The Lupines fought hard and would not allow 
Kupala easy escape. In the twisted cavern where 
the demon lay, champions of the Lupine clans fell 
upon the Antediluvian and its fleshly brood. Eventu-
ally, however, the Tzimisce triumphed when Kupala 
broke free and fled. The demon-spirit did not escape 
completely, however, for it had been interred in the 
mountains for so long that it remained bound to the 
soil. Kupala could not retire to the courts of the spirits 
or to whichever hell it once claimed as home. Instead, 
it took the Carpathians as its new domain and shared 
its existence with the Tzimisce. The region’s Lupines, 
while still formidable in the centuries to come, never 
recovered from this devastating blow. They lost the 
lands they sought to protect and watched Kupala’s 
black blood twist the soil and forests.
Planting the Seed
A warning to you Sabbat Tzimisce. Within in 
us all is the Blood of the great sire itself. It grants us 
a most mutable essence coupled with the greatest 
responsibility. We are Trojan Horses for our master, 
and if you ever attain a new understanding of our 
existence, the Antediluvian may rise within you and 
take form. This is not a loss, but a blessing, for you 
are returning to the gestalt existence of One Flesh 
that existed before the Eldest made you or any of 
us. You are blessed to return into the whole. The 
other clans breed like a disease, but we all come from 
[Tzimisce]. That is why we claim no real fealty to 
Caine, who did no more than doom mortals with 
a Kiss. That is God’s curse and not Caine’s gift! 
The Eldest willingly created us of its own flesh 
and endows each of us with its essence. Where do 
you think the fleshcrafting art comes from? It is 
[Tzimisce] sharing its wisdom with you. Perhaps 
that is why some of our more ancient members 
have abandoned the mutable way. They know the 
art but are fearful of it, lest they stir the slumbering 
Antediluvian within their breast.
The Legend of Kupala
You wish to know of Kupala? Very well, but 
you will discover a price in the telling. Such is al-
ways the case with legends. The whispering spirits 
tell me that Kupala numbered among them, but 
it possessed the power to blight all it surveyed. In 
the days when Caine still suckled at Eve’s teat, it 
fought the Lupines repeatedly until, finally, their 
most potent shamans trapped it. They surrounded 
it from the north and south, and gripped the earth 
with their terrible claws. They peeled the lands 
back like onionskin, forming two great walls, then 
clapped them together in one mighty heave. Their 
herculean effort formed the Carpathians and the 
Alps and trapped Kupala deep within their heart like 
two clasped hands holding a fly. Thus it remained, 
until [Tzimisce] found Kupala centuries later.


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
13
Flood, Curse and Exodus
While the Tzimisce prospered and continued to 
watch the mortals mill about beneath their mountain 
peaks, all was not well in Enoch. Caine’s childer rebelled 
against him, just as he had done against the Almighty, 
and reddened the streets with their blood and that of 
others. Then, in the Almighty’s divine act of retribution 
against mortals, the Great Flood engulfed the world. 
In Europe, it was no different; the mighty rivers that 
fractured the land invited the Deluge across such low-
lying plains as the Danube Basin, the Po Valley and 
the Rhineland. Those who survived the swift rise in 
waters fled to the highlands. Mortal and Cainites alike 
sought refuge on higher and higher grounds, turning 
the Carpathians in particular into an island ark ruled 
by the sovereign Tzimisce lords. The Fiends extended 
hospitality to their new arrivals, taking in payment a 
sacrifice of one child from each family. To show their 
compassion, they rarely took the first-born son. In-
stead, they claimed the youngest for feast, experiment 
or servitude. In some cases, Tzimisce voivodes claimed 
entire families from the larger tribes. Thus came the 
indentured servitude that would eventually give rise 
to the revenant families.
Following the flood, the Fiends noted the passage 
of mortal tribes under the influence of solitary Gangrel 
and Nosferatu from Enoch. The new tribes refused to pay 
fealty to the Fiends and drifted through the Tzimisce’s 
mountain passes without offering amends. The Tzimisce 
claimed preeminence over the region — not unreason-
able considering that they ruled the land in the centuries 
before the fall of Enoch. They alone freed Kupala from 
its prison and kept the Lupines at bay. The intruding 
Cainites, in their arrogance, held that the world and all 
mortals came of Enoch and were, thus, by right, theirs. 
They could go where they wished, and that included the 
domains of the Tzimisce, whom they’d rarely encountered. 
When the floodwaters receded, the Tzimisce lost 
vast domains to new mortal tribes who rushed into the 
void and took territory once held by Fiend-indentured 
families. The Gangrel were of little consequence, since 
they wandered and rarely stayed in one location long 
enough to threaten the local blood-stock. It was the 
Nosferatu and the occasional Malkavian patrons who 
proved difficult. The Fiends dealt with these interlop-
ers and their servants harshly, whether through mortal 
tribal skirmishes or torture. They littered their borders 
with still-living forests of bodies impaled on bone trees 
or fleshcrafted messengers to the backs of their horses 
before sending them riding back to their masters.
The Tzimisce eventually realized they couldn’t 
slaughter everyone journeying through their domains 
lest the mortals unite against them. They allowed their 
cousins passage through to the western lands thick with 
tribes so long as nobody broached their territory. Other 
Cainites recognized the Tzimisce claims to domain, 
but only for the while it took the warring clans of the 
Second City to call Caine’s anger upon them. 
Caine’s curse took the Tzimisce by surprise. Their 
dealings with the soil-bound Kupala, as well their ter-
ritorial nature, became the clan’s anathema when the 
curse forced them to sleep upon their native soil for true 
rest. Even the Eldest nearly perished in the journey back 
home to claim indigenous “dead water” from its birth-
place. Its return to the Carpathians, however, heralded 
a greater flood of mortal herds and Cainites who had left 
the Fertile Crescent in shame following Caine’s edict. 
Knowing they faced a threat to their territories, the 
Tzimisce fortified their domains and fell into isolation-
ism. As a unified front, they might have survived both 
mortal and Cainite claimants to their territory. Divided, 
however, they allowed their brothers and sisters to fall 
while protecting their own havens through harsher 
measures. The Eldest was the sole tie the clan’s members 
had to any others of their bloodline. Self-evolution, like 
the quest for truth, proved a solitary path for many. The 
Tzimisce ruled from their isolated manses like tyrants 
over the mortal communities blossoming at their feet. 
The Antediluvian, however, knew a time would come 
when its clan would drift apart like flotsam. Already, its 
childe Byelobog had retreated into the Pripet Marshes 
while Yorak meditated deep within the Carpathians, 
taking counsel directly from Kupala itself. 
The Eldest Vanishes
An addendum by the Prince of Paupers, priest of the 
Bloodfoot pack
I completed my interrogation of Silas, a Salubri 
antitribu believed fallen with the remainder of the Sac-
rifice Covenant pack of New York. As we’ve suspected, 
the Salubri antitribu are privy to information that we’ve 
only suspected until now. Our eldest Cainites always 
Koldunic Sorcery
We speak of Kupala and claim our koldunic 
rites stave off its infestation. We say it quiets our 
sleep when we rest in its soil. Ha! Our sorcery is 
of Kupala, surely, for that spirit is sovereign over 
all others in our cursed homeland. It hounds those 
who know not its craft, hoping to drive us to it. 
And driven we are. We learn its spells and its way 
with spirits to earn tranquility. Our knowledge of 
koldunic rituals is not a bulwark against Kupala; our 
rest is not a victory achieved. It is the demon’s gift 
to us for being good and blind little sheep.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
14
claimed that [Tzimisce] itself went into torpor shortly 
after Caine’s curse against us, but we lacked a reason, 
given that Yorak’s historical treatise was strangely in-
complete. We now know why. Through Silas, one of 
the Salubri antitribu’s premier historians, I’ve uncovered 
the following. Although some claims lacks a degree of 
credibility, I include them for the sake of the bishops 
and their superiors. It is not my place to judge.
The Salubri, once healers, saw the formation of 
their warrior sect through the efforts of Samiel, their first 
knight; this much we know. Samiel, in turn, launched a 
crusade against “the forces of black magic” and Cainites 
tainted by the seed of heresy. From what I gather, someone 
betrayed us to the Salubri. Samiel learned of the Eldest’s 
bargain with Kupala and deemed the exchange infernal. 
The “great war” the Salubri spoke of was not against 
the mythical “Baali” (if they even existed at all), but 
against us! Samiel and his band of 15 (or seven — Silas 
is truculent) warriors made their way along the foot of 
the Carpathians, remaining hidden among the mass of 
mortal tribes streaming into the European continent 
and raiding the occasional Tzimisce stronghold to un-
cover the Eldest’s haven. Along the way, they secretly 
slaughtered our kind, mistakenly identifying our szlachta 
for demonic familiars and using that as irrefutable proof 
of our concourse with Hell. Silas’ tale, unfortunately, 
mixes legend with fact liberally, making truth all the 
more difficult to uncover. 
According to Silas, Samiel and his knights attacked 
the Eldest in his haven. After fighting past his “legions 
of fiends and devils,” Samiel brought a blazing sword to 
hand and slaughtered the Eldest with “righteous fire.” 
The Eldest, in a final act of defiance, smote Samiel by 
tearing his skull from within his head, leaving but one 
knight to recount the tale afterward. The Salubri later 
realized their mistake, if they made a mistake at all, 
and quietly claimed Samiel died fighting the clan’s 
eternal enemy during their great war. Obviously, while 
some portions of the legend ring true, especially Silas’ 
description of the Eldest’s haven and the servitors that 
Samiel fought, we know the Progenitor survived long 
enough to fall to Lugoj’s fangs. While it is possible that 
Samiel attacked the Eldest and injured it enough to 
place it in torpor, Samiel did not destroy the grand 
Fiend itself.
Driftwood 
Tzimisce
by Bashtani Koudye of Tripoli
Lambach Ruthven is fairly righteous, but part of me 
thinks he’s been smoking crack out of babies’ asses. I got 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
15
a look at his precious journal when he wasn’t around, and 
there’s some wild shit in there. He claims he saw Lugoj 
Blood-breaker commit Amaranth on the Eldest itself before 
the Antediluvian went ahead and pulled a fast one on him. 
That means that Lugoj, who’s in torpor somewhere in the 
Carpathians, is actually Tzimisce now. All right, cool, 
whatever. Later, Lambach tells me the Eldest’s a mutated 
fucking patch of out-of-control cannabis living beneath 
New York and spreading through the sewers like a weed. I 
know, to you this sounds like moist and runny shit, but you 
got to respect the fact that we can do some scary-ass stuff. 
Lambach’s tale means one of two things. One, he took a 
big hit off that baby butt, or two, the legends our sire told 
us were true…. What!? You know which one. I’m talking 
about where Tzimisce can manifest in any of us and turn 
us into it. If that’s true, then there’s at least two Tzimisce 
Antediluvians running around right now, and we’re doubly 
screwed. What? What d’ya mean “Be a good lad”? What 
the fuck are you talking…. Holy sh—
— Kaleel Bratovitch, Tzimisce kennel master, deceased
With the Eldest under the sleep of ages, its childer 
withdrew from the world. The Carpathians and the 
eastward Volga Basin remained Fiend territory, but the 
clan still pursued isolationist agendas and private ven-
dettas. The Antediluvian’s fear that its progeny would 
surrender to wholly esoteric pursuits proved correct. 
Even Yorak and Byelobog retreated into their respective 
realms and had little to do with one another. With safer 
passage available around the Carpathians by way of the 
Mediterranean Sea, Greece and Rome flourished into 
expansive empires influenced by the other clans. Rome 
witnessed some Tzimisce patronage under the Dracon, 
while other Fiends trickled out from the black deeps of 
the Eastern forests. The fact remained, however, that 
the Carpathian Cainites isolated themselves from the 
world. This is why they lost territory to their rivals.
First Mycenaean, then Hellenistic Greece ruled over 
portions of Europe, but they never advanced toward 
the Carpathians. The Romans, in turn, expanded their 
empire further, prostrating themselves at the feet of the 
mountain chain. Even they stopped from ascending 
her slopes, however. From the Celts to the Slavs and 
Goths, the Carpathians remained untenable. This isn’t 
to say the Tzimisce stayed dormant or idle during this 
period. In truth, they ruled the land as near gods and 
came to influence the surrounding tribes with growing 
proficiency. As individuals, the Tzimisce accomplished 
much, thanks to the Dracon, Shaagra and Radu, but as a 
clan, they rarely worked together to any real conclusion. 
Yorak’s disinterest in leading the Fiends as the regional 
Voivode among Voivodes didn’t help either.
The eldest of the region’s Tzimisce, Yorak assumed 
the Voivodate following the Progenitor’s fall into torpor. 
He stayed in the caves where Kupala whispered loudest 
and concentrated on other matters, such as enslaving 
tribes of Slavs, Celts and the occasional Thracian clan 
for his experiments. He fully believed in Azhi Dahaka, 
the ecstatic state that the Eldest itself sought to uncover. 
He spent his lifetimes within the labyrinthine Carpath-
ians, exploring the world through his mental Disciplines, 
even though he’d long ago abandoned interest in the 
outside realms. 
Over the centuries, Yorak constructed his Cathedral 
of Flesh. Rivaling the Hanging Gardens of Babylon and 
the Christian monuments to come later, this magnum 
opus to pain and suffering became the center of Meta-
morphosist thought and worship. Yorak built it over the 
course of centuries, through dozens of caverns and with 
thousands of victims. For a while, the Tzimisce pursued 
their agendas and paid little heed to the world grow-
ing on the horizon’s edge. When Yorak and the others 
learned that Rome owed its glory in part to Cainites, 
however, they realized they could no longer lurk in 
the shadows like the Lasombra. Certainly, the Roman 
Empire did not expand beyond the Danube Basin, but 
The Eldest’s Fate and 
the Children of Dracon
Rise, Child of Dracon, for I speak of our Progeni-
tor. The Eldest did indeed “perish” during Samiel’s 
attack, but what is destruction to a creature of its 
power? The Progenitor survived through each seed 
that it implanted within its progeny upon the Embrace 
and within the progeny of its progeny. It no longer 
needed its own form, for it could take shape within 
each of us, if it so wished. On Cyprus, the Dracon 
felt the Eldest awaken and grow within his belly. 
The Dracon took care to nurture the newly risen 
Progenitor. After birthing it, the Dracon smuggled 
the fetal Antediluvian back to the Carpathians and 
placed it under the Methuselah Yorak’s care, deep 
within the bowels of the mountains.
While the torpid embryo slept and grew in the 
befouled soil like a seed, the demon Kupala whispered 
into the Eldest’s ears, as it had done with Yorak. To 
what avail, I know not, but few can withstand centuries 
of discourse with demons and come away untouched. 
Suffice it to say that our understanding of koldunic 
ways became far greater. As the soil and flora rotted 
further, our familiarity with the demon’s paths grew 
effortless. That is why the Children of Dracon do not 
tap the fetid magics of Kupala. That was not a gift of 
[Tzimisce] itself and came only through a malignant 
demon whose touch never left the Romanian soil. 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
16
empires would contest the might of the Fiends. In turn, 
these new sovereignties would bring with them Cainites 
hungry for the clan’s domain. As it was, the Romans 
were uncomfortably close because few Tzimisce did 
anything to halt their incursions. 
Yorak wisely realized that politics and kingly matters 
were far outside his expertise or skill. Both the koldun 
and he preferred their studies to affecting mortal af-
fairs and stemming Cainite incursion into their lands. 
Instead, he chose to Embrace the influential members 
of the regional tribes and task them with that which 
did not interest him.
Shaagra: The New Direction
Yorak’s decision to strengthen his brood’s domains 
in the region came at a fortuitous time. Change gripped 
the known world. To the farthest East, the Hunnite 
Empire fell to the Chinese at the start of the Christian 
calendar, sending the Huns into nomadic exile. They 
swiftly spread west, so that, by AD 375, they arrived in 
the Ukraine, where they displaced the Ostrogoths and 
Visigoths with their lighting-fast raids. The Ostrogoths 
petitioned Emperor Valens for settlement in Moesia, but 
when he demanded they surrender their wives and chil-
dren, the inevitable clash resulted in a stunning Roman 
loss. The story later repeated itself with the Visigoths.
The Cathedral of Flesh
It was magnificent. Thick stalagmites and stalac-
tites formed the pillars, with bone trusses over which 
limestone grew and formed an osseous mix of liquid 
architecture. Either skulls — with their eyes and sur-
rounding musculature still intact — or cartilage — thin 
enough to behold the sea of viscera and floating organs 
comprised the walls; scores of ghouls moistened the 
eyes so they could blink properly. Even more revenants 
conducted the ritual tattooing by drawing charcoal-
dusted threads through their victim’s skin with bone 
needles. Later, Yorak and his childer would carefully 
slough the flesh from their screaming sacrifices, treat 
the fresh canvas in a preservative and stretch it over 
the windows like a mosaic. The cathedral had so many 
wonders, like the blood pool lined with sitting victims 
whom you could use as chairs, the pillars of grafted 
bodies, the walls of mouths that sang a wailing chorus 
as you passed them or the open gallery where corpses 
remained impaled on stalactites. 
Such wonders. It’s a pity the modern nights could 
not support such beauty openly. Truthfully, nobody 
knows where the Cathedral of Flesh is anymore; it’s 
apparently vanished. Where once it stood, I’m told, 
rests naught but a gaping hole.


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
17
Meanwhile, any hope that the Roman Empire could 
rise from its ashes died with Constantine’s ill-chosen 
heirs. Rome was on the decline, and its resident Ventrue, 
Toreador and Malkavians had lost control to a squabbling 
host of Cainite detractors and to the unlikely strength of 
a Hebraic cult. The city’s eldest fled in droves, sending 
Europe into a decaying spiral. The periphery of the Ro-
man Empire crumbled and regional Damned panicked. 
They knew the Germanic tribes prepared for massacre and 
pillage, and many sought diplomacy with the previously 
isolated Tzimisce. For once, the other clans treated the 
Fiends as potential allies and not an Eastern frontier threat. 
The Tzimisce, in turn, noticed the flood of human-
ity streaming through their northernmost borders. The 
tribes and federations of Hun-displaced nomads fought 
and intermingled, as was expected, but the Gangrel of 
the steppes and disenfranchised Brujah accompanied 
them. Yorak met with several Gangrel chieftains and 
promised them unmolested passage through the Car-
pathians’ Tihuta Pass; in return, they promised to incite 
warfare against the Roman settlements along their routes. 
Yorak sought to regain the territory the clan lost with 
the arrival of the Ventrue and Malkavians. The spread 
of the tribes turned into a wave that tainted everything 
ahead of it. In the wake of that chaos, Yorak sent in 
Tzimisce to reclaim their former estates.
Shaagra’s Embrace heralded the Tzimisce’s golden 
age and centuries of the Fiends’ dominion over Eastern 
Europe. Yorak understood that the wandering Hun, 
Slavic and Goth tribes would eventually become the 
new landholders of whatever territory they settled. It 
had happened before with the Scythians and Hallstatt 
in the centuries preceding the White Christ’s birth, 
and it would happen again, given Europe’s virgin ex-
panses. Theoretically, by influencing the tribes now, the 
Tzimisce could establish themselves as the preeminent 
clan of the region.
The Slav Shaagra came from the Vroi tribe and 
ruled as their goddess, leader and mystic. Her people 
fled westward after her tribe had suffered under the 
harsh ministrations of a larger tribe. When they reached 
the Carpathians, Yorak took notice of Shaagra. She 
held concourse with potent spirits and possessed a 
beacon soul. Yorak sensed Shaagra’s potent magic and 
the supernatural creatures she entertained as counsel. 
Shaagra commanded strong respect from her people, 
and possessed the vision as shaman to appeal to the 
Tzimisce’s sense of Azhi Dahaka. Yorak accepted her 
for the Embrace, but he did not take her. 
Although he was the voivode of the region, other 
Tzimisce Methuselahs shared Yorak’s age. While Byelobog 
remained aloof, both Triglav the Three-Headed — who 
earned mythological reverence among the regional tribes 
— and Lambach Ruthven wanted Shaagra for themselves. 
Yorak, however, chose Triglav as second in line among 
the local Fiends and allowed him the Embrace. Lambach 
would never forget that slight, and its repercussions would 
certainly echo down history’s corridor. 
Shaagra never knew her sire. Once educated in the 
craft of the Tzimisce and forced into the blood oath, she 
and her tribe followed her granddaughter and favored 
ghoul, Libussa, into the Danube Plain. Traveling in the 
century-long wake of marauding tribes and bands, the 
Vroi eventually settled upon land that would become 
Prague, the westernmost point of Carpathian Tzimisce 
influence. It would serve as a border against Western 
interests and become one of many flash points in the 
Tremere-Tzimisce conflict. Shaagra herself slept in fitful 
torpor, growing steadily insane in the blackened soil of 
Kupala’s violation. Her Embrace, however, precipitated 
the Tzimisce practice of claiming stock from noble 
families and tribal leaders to better influence the region’s 
mortals. This brought a new breed of Fiends into the 
clan’s hierarchy. Tzimisce like Radu, Wladymir Rusto-
vitch and Dracula provide but a sample of the dozen 
who played the parts of nobility and engaged in games 
of political intrigue against the regional Ventrue and 
Brujah at the time better than their sires had. The clan 
broke its mold of cackling fiends and incomprehensible 
Metamorphosists and emerged from its isolationism, 
albeit fractured and of opposing agendas. 
The Zadruga
Eli Dragsky, Priscus of Moscow
Sorry if I’m not poetic, but I’m a scholar, not a writer. 
You’ll also note that I’m against the concept of revenant 
families for a variety of reasons. We all know that, for 
centuries, Tzimisce such as Yorak and the Dracon bound 
entire families into tortured slavery under the euphe-
mism zadruga, or “joint family.” Convenience first forged 
this practice because it proved easier to raise servants 
in an environment of horror than to train continually 
relative newcomers to accept what they saw. Eventu-
ally, these ghouls, whether through the haunted soil of 
the Carpathians or from centuries of weathering the 
blood bond, managed to pass their half-Damned state 
on to their children, thus forming revenants. Yorak’s 
childer spoke of ancient ghoul families predating the 
Great Flood, though their fates before Christ’s birth 
are a little nebulous. Given the deformities that we’re 
seeing emerge from our own families, however, I think 
they simply became too genetically polluted to breed 
anymore. Sorry, but if the Bratovitches are an indication 
of what we can expect, then they pose a danger to our 
existence. They’re becoming wild and unpredictable; 
the suicide/murder rate among the Bratovitches alone 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
18
is staggering, and more than a few revenants have acci-
dentally attracted hunters and, sometimes, the media to 
our doorsteps. They’re walking time bombs, and frankly, 
that’s the least of our worries from them. 
The modern revenant lines trace their history to 
the tribes of Slavs and Celts once living in the Danube 
and Volga basins. The eldest known family, the Basarab, 
claimed joint lineage from Dacian royalty and Roman 
Bogatyri
Before the revenants, the szlachta, the vozhd and 
the ghouls came the bogatyri, the Eldest’s champions. 
Yorak asserted the bogatyri were not kine, Lupine 
or Cainite. Although they appeared mortal, they 
claimed lineage from Meru, a mystical mountain in 
India and supposed birthplace of the Arioi (what 
occult-scholars would later call the mythical Aryan 
race). Metal refused to cut their unblemished skin 
while stone and wood foreswore never to bruise them. 
The bogatyri came into [Tzimisce’s] service when 
the Great Flood washed a band of them against the 
Carpathians. In return for the Eldest’s hospitality 
and succor, they offered their allegiance. 
Each bogatyri possessed a skin pouch holding 
the flesh of the Antediluvian — when they fought 
for it, the skin pouch crawled over their faces and 
gave them the countenance of the Eldest. Their 
forearm bones extended into blades, while their 
tongues darted out like daggers. When the Eldest fell 
to Samiel, the bogatyri scattered to the four winds 
to find it. They never returned, even after Yorak 
sent them messages that the Dracon had carried 
the Eldest to term.
Lambach believes the bogatyri split and now 
guard the different manifestations of the Eldest itself. 
Certainly, Lambach saw someone of indescribable 
purity watching over the Eldest (in its guise as Lu-
goj) and again caught glimpse of another beneath 
the tunnels of New York. Certainly.…
legionnaires. The Basarab retained their nobility and land 
holdings during their existence as revenants. Unlike the 
other families, they later married into Szekler stock and 
forestalled the onset of deformity. As warriors and strate-
gists par excellence, they could have served the Sabbat as 
near equals, had “great” Dracula himself not been born 
Basarab and Embraced. The mortal Dracula murdered 
a number of us in his quest for immortality and greater 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
19
influence over regional politics. He even forced his way 
into the clan by threatening Lambach with destruction. 
Because of Dracula’s actions, we hunted down the entire 
revenant line and destroyed them to the last ghoul, just 
to make a lesson of them. If you think this was an iso-
lated incident, think again. This isn’t the first time we’ve 
Embraced revenants, and it isn’t the first time they’ve 
threatened to betray the clan or sect. We often fail to 
realize that these creatures possess a dangerous degree of 
knowledge and many even hate us. We’ve made slaves of 
these families for centuries, and then, we Embrace them 
and offer them stakes? Just how foolish are we? 
The Basarab aren’t the only fallen lines — what about 
the Danislav? These former kin to the Lupines betrayed 
and destroyed Count Florescu before we annihilated them. 
The Krevcheski were our greatest traitors. As clockwork 
masons and siege engineers, they broke their oaths and al-
lied themselves with the loathsome Tremere. We thought 
we destroyed them during the Renaissance, but now, I’m 
hearing conflicting rumors that some still serve the Coun-
cil of Seven or that they’ve betrayed the Tremere as well 
and formed a minor bloodline of sorcerers skilled in both 
Thaumaturgy and koldunic ways. What about the albino 
Khazi who served the “White God” Byelobog? We’ve 
heard continued allegations that one of them betrayed 
their master to the Teutonic Knights, which weakened 
him enough for Lugoj to diablerize him later. Unfortu-
nately, we can’t confirm this because the Khazi died at 
the hands of the Teutonic Knights during the fighting or 
in subsequent Crusades by the Christian Church. How 
many more families must betray us before we smarten up?
Look at the revenants that survive into the new 
millennium; they are a fucking pitiful lot, numbering the 
Bratovitch, Grimaldi, Obertus, Zantosa and Oprichniki. 
The hedonistic Szantovitch (Zantosa, if you prefer their 
modern incarnation) may have been great spies once, but 
the nights of noble Poland and Bohemia are gone. Even 
then, they were too independent; now, they’re close to 
extinction and useless in the modern nights. That makes 
them desperate and dangerous. The Bratovitches have 
always been our dogs of war, and unfortunately, they’re 
acting like it too. Only the Italian-born Grimaldi and the 
scholarly Obertus have managed to serve us loyally, while 
still staying hidden. Still, you don’t think the Giovanni 
haven’t been trying to woo the Grimaldi from us or that 
the Obertus don’t still spy for the Dracon from their 
nights in Constantinople? It won’t take much for either 
family to betray us, you know.
Of final note are the Oprichniki; this lot troubles me. 
The Oprichniki are the youngest of the revenants, with a 
history dating back only to the 16th century, during the 
reign of Ivan the Terrible. This Russian dictator ruled 
over Oprichnina and used his secret police to ferret out 
dissidents, detractors and anyone he considered an enemy 
of the state. Called the Oprichniki, these mortal agents 
sowed fear and discord throughout the countryside in a 
campaign of legitimized murder. Eventually, the insane 
Ivan even turned his men against each other. We were 
wise not to Embrace this syphilis-induced madman (leave 
him for the Ventrue!), but we did bring the surviving 
Oprichniki under our sway. After all, the horrors of Ivan’s 
torture chambers had already inured them to violence.
My problem is this; the Oprichniki served us well 
until Communism usurped White Russia. Afterward, 
they stayed behind the Iron Curtain, hidden from the 
Sabbat until the collapse of the USSR. Since then, 
they’ve stayed in Russia and Romania, serving our 
“comrades” within the Oradea League (essentially, 
the non-Sabbat Tzimisce). That means we don’t have 
the full loyalty of these ghouls, and that makes them 
potentially dangerous. Additionally, we might suffer 
swift reprisal from the Sabbat should it learn we kept 
this line hidden from the sect. They pose a danger to 
us, one we should eliminate immediately.
The Rebellion
by Devin and Alison Markbury of London 
Before the Sabbat came, the elder Tzimisce always 
abused their authority over their progeny. Being a Fiend 
meant surviving 100 hells and 1,000 degradations, just to 
claim some measure of autonomy. Unfortunately, from 
the time the Ventrue under Nova Arpad came to influence 
the Carpathian nights, the elder Tzimisce thought of their 
progeny as nothing more than nocked arrows ready for the 
flight. The inter-clan conflicts alone claimed their score of 
neonates, to say nothing of the Tzimisce-Tremere enmity. 
— Velya the Vivisectionist, Cardinal of the Land 
Beyond the Forest
Cainite scholars say Patricia Bollingbroke started 
the Anarch Revolt under the name Tyler and led her 
band of berserks against Hardestadt of Clan Ventrue in 
1395. Actually, the Anarch Movement began earlier 
by a few centuries. The appearance of the Usurper 
Milk and Blood
I once witnessed how the revenants blood-tied 
their own children in service to their lords. The 
mother, her breasts heavy with milk, partook of 
her lord’s vitae, then fed her child. As the infant 
suckled at her teat, she withdrew a knife and made 
a tiny incision just above her nipple (amid a sea of 
scars). Her blood flowed freely over her breast and 
into the child’s mouth, while it lapped the muddy 
mixture of the two.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
20
Tremere sparked a hidden war against us for control of 
the mystically infused Carpathians. Both sides wanted 
a slice of Kupala’s power, and the only way to gain 
that was to squat on his territory. Despite our efforts 
to stop them, the Tremere forged alliances with the 
Ventrue and other clans to dispose of us politically. 
Transylvania, at this point, fell into seven “unofficial” 
domains that the clans claimed as theirs. By 1197, the 
number dropped to four, with three realms left to rot 
without voivodes. Although we still held the greatest 
power over Transylvania, internal bickering pretty 
much kneecapped our efforts. I’m surprised we stayed 
in control at all. The Tremere hooked up with the 
Arpad Ventrue, who claimed lineage from the Magyar 
tribes that invaded the Carpathian basin in AD 948. 
Staking land in the heart of Tzimisce territory, Nova 
Arpad proved a pain in our arse and outplayed us 
politically. Of course, when diplomacy and alliances 
failed, the Tremere bushwhacked our keeps with their 
Gargoyles. Our elders countered with their szlachta 
and even sacrificed a thrall or two to save their arses. 
Cainite ash rolled with the Carpathian mists in those 
nights, and the lucky neonates survived a week. 
Internally, we screwed ourselves over bad. A host of 
Tzimisce marked their territories in blood and tolerated 
little interference from their own kind. Radu, Marelle, 
Razkolina and Darvag played gods in their domain 
and felt no obligation to help each other. Yorak didn’t 
care enough to help the situation, and when he did, 
he nominated Vladimir Rustovitch as his “successor,” 
whatever that meant. The other Tzimisce ignored Rus-
tovitch’s shiny title Voivode among Voivodes because it 
didn’t mean shit without Fiends like Yorak or Byelobog 
to back up the claim. It’s also noteworthy that he never 
claimed that title for himself — somebody called him 
voivode, and it stuck, but not with the recognition of 
the older Fiends. In the middle of all this, naturally, the 
Nosferatu master mason Zelios caught us by surprise after 
he built a series of castles across Transylvania. The first 
of them, overlooking the precious Tihuta Pass in the 
Carpathians, acted as a floodgate against the Mongol 
tide sweeping through the East. We didn’t realize it at 
the time, but the castles actually formed a geomantic 
web of ley lines that tethered the castles together and 
trapped Kupala. 
Actually, I say we didn’t know, but some of us did. 
Zelios had the support of the Tzimisce Methuselah, 
Dracon, who’d been butting heads with his Carpathian 
brethren since settling in Constantinople. The Dracon, 
a principle founder of the city, regularly spoke out 
against Kupala and our use of koldunic sorcery. What 
started as civil arguments and debates broke into open 
conflict between the Carpathian Tzimisce and the 
Obertus flock in Constantinople. Matters finally hit 
rock bottom when the Dracon Embraced a young man 
named Gesu (who sired his own brother Symeon, thus 
leading to the Embrace of Myca Vykos, an esteemed 
priscus). Prior to all this, Gesu had nightmarish visions 
concerning the “evils of the land” (read: Kupala), and 
upon “Becoming,” he fell into an odd torpor. The Dra-
con blamed Gesu’s condition on the Balkan Tzimisce 
and left Constantinople to attack his Carpathian 
cousins. In a fit of fury, he bushwhacked Triglav the 
Three-Headed, an accomplished koldun, and following 
a fierce battle that decimated the tirsa, deprived Triglav 
of his namesakes. The Balkan Tzimisce retaliated by 
destroying Byzantine-Akoimetai monasteries outside 
Constantinople. This is how the Obertus revenants 
found themselves as lock, stock and property of the 
entire clan. The rift between our koldun siblings and 
the Children of Dracon never healed. Oh, they’re civil 
to each other now, but I don’t want to be there when 
these two factions meet in an isolated alley.
Meanwhile, in the mortal world, where the vast 
Roman Empire failed to conquer, Christianity boldly 
marched. The northern lands of Denmark, Norway 
and Sweden fell to the martyr’s religion. The local 
Tzimisce, such as the Fiend-witch Gunnhild, found 
their hlaut blood magic of little use against the papal 
champion Olaf Tryggvason. Christianity was the most 
effective siege engine Cainites had ever encountered. 
The Toreador borrowed or influenced its artistic and 
architectural development. The Ventrue embraced 
the language of the litany before all others had and 
assumed positions of power when the Church con-
verted kingdoms and standardized the state language 
to Latin. The Lasombra also touched on the Church’s 
hierarchy from the top down, while the Malkavians 
inspired heresies with their conniving tongues. To 
add insult to injury, the great Byelobog nearly fell to 
Teutonic Knights who braved the Pripet Marshes, and 
Final Revenge
You want to know why I’m laughing? Cause 
this shit’s hilarious. I’d been hearing rumors saying 
that some Tzimisce pointed the Tremere Goratrix 
toward the Embrace. At first, I wondered why 
somebody would be that stupid, then it hit me; it 
was pure genius. The Tremere took their first blood 
from a Tzimisce before Tremere himself drained 
Saulot. That means the entire clan has portions of 
the [Tzimisce] in them. When the Eldest emerges 
from torpor, both clans are going to be eaten inside 
fucking out… And who says we don’t have patience 
or cunning when it comes to revenge? 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
21
weakened the Methuselah enough for Lugoj Blood-
breaker to take him down later on. 
The Mongols arrival in 1241 didn’t help much 
either. Like a tide, they swept through Eastern Europe 
and back out again in just a year, leaving Transylvania 
broken and easy pickings for other Cainites to claim. The 
Mongols shattered our holdings throughout the region 
and nearly destroyed Darvag Grozny, the Butcher of Rus, 
who remained in Torpor till the rise of Baba Yaga and the 
fall of Communism. The old guard changed, especially 
after the attack on Byelobog, and the young Tzimisce 
had good reason to hope their indentured servitude was 
near an end. Their masters, however, seeing the same 
changes happen to the world, tightened their grips over 
their thralls. It didn’t take long before violence erupted.
Lugoj Blood-breaker, the first voice of Tzimisce 
dissent, traced his lineage back to Noriz, the so-called 
Corrupter of Legions. Although Noriz strode across 
Moldavia, conquering the tirsas of rival Cainites, he 
built his ladder to power from the spines of his childer 
and grandchilder. After he avoided destruction once 
too often, Lugoj and his siblings vowed never to be 
anyone’s pawns again. Unfortunately, the Tzimisce 
anchored their loyalties with a million different hooks, 
and freedom often took planning. 
It took another century before the time was right, if 
not critical. Tyler, leading the Anarch Revolt, attacked 
the Ventrue potentate Hardestadt, while the Ottomans 
(who brought with them the rapacious Assamites) ate 
away at the borders of Eastern Europe. The Inquisi-
tion ensured that Western Europe fared no better and 
claimed scores of young Cainites. Then news came 
that the Lasombra, under the leadership of Gratiano, 
had not only joined the anarchs but also managed to 
diablerize their Antediluvian as well. Young Tzimisce 
had already spent decades searching the Carpathians for 
the rare and profane bloom known as Kupala’s sacred 
fire-flower, an artifact that Fiends hoped would help 
shatter their ties to their elders. When two Tzimisce, 
Lugoj and his ally Velya the Flayer, finally found the 
sacred fire-flower, they gathered on Kupala’s Eve and 
broke the blood-oaths hanging over everyone’s heads. 
The Tzimisce revolt was under way. 
The Anarch Revolt 
If you want to know more about the Anarch Revolt 
and formation of the Sabbat, talk to Lambach Ruthven. 
He had a hand in both events and isn’t as likely to rip 
your head off as Velya and that psychotic babbling 
harridan on his back. Lambach, the product of ancient 
Carpathian nobility, is the guy you have to watch out 
for though. The older Sabbat consider him a goof and 
screw-up, but frankly, I’m not saying that to any Fiend 
who’s been around longer than most organized religions. 
Sure, Lambach plays the fool, but I think he’s playing 
other folks even more. He attended Kupala’s Eve when 
the Tzimisce broke the ancient blood oaths and made 
everyone equal. Not once did he consider himself the 
enemy, and in truth, neither did the anarchs. Lambach 
never abused his power or esteem as Methuselah. Frankly, 
without his vitae, many Fiends doubted they could have 
broken their blood ties. Lambach was like the catalyst 
of the entire process.
While the anarch Tzimisce took their sweet time 
getting into the revolt, when they did, they did it with 
both feet. Oh, did I also mention they did it disorga-
nized as hell? Once free of the blood oaths, the young 
Tzimisce decided to try out independence at breakneck 
speed and scattered in a dozen different directions. Yes, 
I know Sabbat history recounts the glorious war in 
more reverent terms, but the truth is, we acted like wild 
teenagers more than Fiends. I’m surprised the Tzimisce 
elders didn’t slap down the entire movement, but they 
Mad Ramblings?
I know what history says, but I don’t believe 
its lies so easily. I knew the sycophant Lugoj, and 
he served his masters eagerly. He claims Velya and 
he discovered Kupala’s treasure in a forgotten and 
desecrated mountain monastery. It grew through the 
crack of the chapel floor, and degenerate creatures, 
once monks, later Tzimisce and then Kupala’s min-
ions guarded it jealously. Lugoj claims they barely 
escaped with their unlives. Lies. Lugoj played the 
lackey for his master, the Eldest, and found Kupala’s 
heart only because the Eldest so guided him. I tell you 
this because Yorak shared the truth with me ages ago. 
Had Lugoj and Velya followed the flower’s winding 
veins through the crack of the monastery’s floors, they 
would have chased it into the deepest intestines of 
Yorak’s domain, into his Cathedral of Flesh. 
Why foster this duplicity when it eventually de-
stroyed a score of Tzimisce, you ask? Because Kupala’s 
sacred “fire flower” was, in fact, a portion of the Eldest’s 
newest form, a precursor to the horror dwelling in 
the sewers of New York. Don’t believe me, but ask 
Lambach what he witnessed in the sewers, and watch 
him stutter. The Eldest allowed Lugoj to take of itself 
so that it could shatter any former alliances shared by 
its progeny. It imparted its seeds in new generations of 
Tzimisce, binding them to it alone when it so chose. 
Ironically, the Tzimisce shared of their blood in a 
subsequent ritus, thus turning the Sabbat (as opposed 
to the clan alone) into the Eldest’s harvest. And when 
the thing beneath New York grows hungry, who do 
you think it will summon to feast upon? 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
22
weren’t any better organized and didn’t take the revolt 
seriously enough. They did later, when the anarchs 
attacked several Carpathian keeps in the span of a few 
months and burned down those they couldn’t breach. 
Tzimisce elders retaliated through the various av-
enues open to them. Some bribed the anarchs to look 
the other way, others defended themselves behind walls 
of szlachta or used their revenants on suicide missions 
to eliminate particularly truculent childer. Again, the 
efforts to fight the anarchs proved too little, too late, 
too scattered. At this point, Mehmet II laid waste to 
Constantinople, the Christian bastion. During the 
Tzimisce’s civil war across Europe, they ignored the 
real-world problems thundering around them. The Turks 
threatened Europe, and only the continued struggle 
along the eastern borders kept them at bay. Whenever 
the Christian and Muslim empires collided, however, the 
anarchs stepped into the chaos and rode the mayhem. 
Unfortunately, they substituted one master, in the form 
of their sires, for another, in the form of the Ventrue 
and Assamites.
The Fiends’ rebellion did more to destabilize the 
region than any Mongol horde had ever done. They 
foolishly allowed lesser and often weaker nobility to 
escape retribution whether because boyars bribed them 
or suddenly shifted allegiance. Meanwhile, the anarchs 
destroyed many of the potent elders who often protected 
the clan’s ancestral domains against the depredations of 
the Tremere and Ventrue. The final blow to the Tzimisce 
came when both Byelobog and the Eldest itself fell to 
diablerie. Yorak had already reputedly fallen, though 
the culprit remains a mystery, while the Dracon was 
nowhere to be found. While this seemed like a victory 
at the time, the truth is, by destroying our strongest 
members or driving them into hiding, we made it easier 
for the other clans to walk all over us. Sure, the Ventrue 
and Tremere say we should be held accountable for our 
crimes, but the fact remains that they benefited more 
than anyone else did.
By this time, the anarchs suffered a series of defeats 
at the hands of the nascent Camarilla and its potent 
elders. The Inquisition swung its scythe with renewed 
vigor following the release of Malleus Maleficarum (the 
so-called Hammer of Witches) and reaped season upon 
season of Cainite crop. Meanwhile, we discovered 
that our peers and even elders were ready to listen to 
reason, if only because over the last four centuries we’d 
lost many of our Carpathian demesnes. Pushed back 
at every front, we did poorly in the struggle against 
the now-legitimized Tremere; we squandered territory 
and szlachta on the Ventrue and watched Christianity 
destroy our pagan followers. Eastern Europe served as 
nothing more than a bulwark against Oriental aggres-
sion, and any Tzimisce still in “power” was the lord of 
flotsam scattered across a huge ocean. Worse yet, the 
Camarilla had appropriately risen like a phoenix from 
the Council of Ashes that tried to extend its influence 
into Transylvania and mandated a policy of Masquerade. 
The final blow came at the Convention of Thorns 
in the year following Columbus’ discovery of the New 
World, when the anarchs surrendered their grievances 
and the Assamites accepted the blood curse. The terms 
of acquiescence would have seen Transylvania fall from 
the Tzimisce and into the hands of their rivals, the 
Tremere. Was it any wonder the Convention of Thorns 
alienated us and the aristocratic Keepers? I even think 
the Camarilla did this deliberately to isolate the two 
clans because we dared to destroy our Eldest. In the 
end, it didn’t really matter; we never would have joined 
the Camarilla for various reasons. Our elders hated the 
Tremere, and the very fact that they stood as equals 
in this new alliance served as an affront to us (not to 
mention that joining the Camarilla meant giving up 
territory and their rights as nobles). Conversely, our 
young members fought too hard and for too long to 
abandon their cause. 
Fortunately for us, the same predicament bothered 
the Lasombra. Because we both destroyed our elders with 
such abandon during the revolt, that made us Cainites 
non gratae in the esteem of the Camarilla’s clans. A co-
alition of Tzimisce met with as many Lasombra on the 
island of Mallorca, and after arguing over statement of 
purpose and ideology, we agreed to support one another. 
While the Convention of Thorns’ delegates signed their 
legacies away, we denounced the Camarilla and formed 
the nascent Sabbat in defiance of both the seven-clan 
alliance and the mortal Inquisition. 
The Sabbat
When we first started this little venture known as 
the Sabbat, I think we romanticized our struggle a bit 
too much. We played the rogue and renegade generals 
seeking to wrest the kingdom from the control of the 
evil emperor. If any solemnity came into play, it was 
thanks to the surprising recruitment of some of our former 
enemies, the elders. Not everyone signed up, but when 
one of the eldest Fiends — Rustovitch — joined the 
Sabbat, he brought with him the respectability of the 
entire clan. Slowly, our war against the elders ceased, 
and both sides came to an understanding. Those who 
did not join us generally excused themselves from our 
affairs and paid for their independence by turning their 
revenant families over to the Sabbat cause. It was a small 
price to pay for their safety, and we benefited greatly 
from the Bratovitch’s kennel masters and the Obertus’ 
disquieting skill with occult matters. In return, we didn’t 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
23
bother the elders anymore. This was not solidarity so 
much as an acknowledgement that we had to stop 
bushwhacking each other. 
Meanwhile, the Sabbat-aligned koldun and Meta-
morphosists understood the Tzimisce’s importance in 
this new rebellion. If the Lasombra offered structure 
and cohesion to anarchs, then the Tzimisce had to 
strengthen the alliance in some capacity. While this 
never manifested as an open statement of purpose, 
various Fiends did direct the Sabbat (through their 
packs) toward the spiritual nature of Cainite existence 
and twisted the Inquisition’s piety into the sect’s new 
standard. When packs met, they exchanged ideas and 
rites, and soon, the more popular practices proliferated 
throughout the Sabbat. The Befouler pack of Worms 
helped foster mass Embraces, a precept where no one 
vampire claimed patronage over another. The Carpath-
ian War Dogs introduced a nascent form of Creation 
Rites (what they called “blood baptisms”), where, like 
the old axiom that an entire village raises a child, each 
neonate is childer to the Sabbat as a whole. Other Tzi-
misce packs introduced various Trials by Ordeal and War, 
the two methods by which Fiends settled their disputes 
in centuries past. They borrowed from the notion of 
survival of the fittest, and this idea played heavily in 
Creation Rites as well; the Embrace did not guarantee 
subsistence. Soon afterward, we refined the Vaulderie 
and ensured its practice throughout the Sabbat. Even 
later, we fostered the new Paths of Enlightenment, 
those contemporary and mutable guideposts in a quickly 
evolving world.
Following the Convention of Thorns, the Camarilla 
foolishly believed they’d settled the anarch issue. In the 
following 50 years, however, we, along with the Lasombra 
and the newly christened antitribu, launched a series of 
raids against “Kindred” holdings. It was nothing short 
of war, and while the Camarilla reeled from blow after 
blow against the Masquerade itself, we still lost territory 
to outsiders, especially the barbaric Assamites. Finally, 
the Camarilla grasped the nature of the conflict and 
turned the tables on us. Using their extensive mortal 
influences, the Camarilla besieged Transylvania with 
diplomatic censure, trade embargoes and mortal poli-
tics. Tzimisce lords suddenly found themselves bereft 
of kine allies or the support of neighboring villages that 
once feared them. We prided ourselves as being above 
mortal concerns, so we certainly didn’t expect the blow 
to wound us so grievously.
Domains that had belonged to us for millennia in 
the counting now went to others. Several of us fled the 
Carpathians to the northern wastes of Scandinavia. We 
were not alone either. The Camarilla had routed the 
Sabbat across Europe. By the beginning of the 17th 
century, Europe was a new place, and if we had any 
doubts as to our loyalties, they evaporated when we bid 
our havens farewell. 
The Sabbat’s 
Struggle
By Andrea Leehorn, priscus
Dracula? Ooh, honey, and where’s the rest of his friends? 
You know, Booberry and Frankenberry? Girl, I’m just too 
damn funny.
— Mr. Misster, pack priest for the Sacred Band
The Sabbat, still young by the measure of Cainites, 
found an unusual ally in Gunnhild and her progeny who’d 
survived in the Baltic lands for centuries. Accustomed 
to the lap of Carpathian luxury, we did not realize that 
in other places, we did not master all we surveyed. This 
provided us with the catalyst to stop seeing the liberation 
of Transylvania as our sole end within the Sabbat. Until 
now, we, as Carpathian Tzimisce, believed ourselves 
the sole contributors to the sect, but with our exile into 
Scandinavia, we encountered our forgotten kinsmen.
Gunnhild, the “Mother of Kings” and Fiend-
witch, and her brood had found acceptance among the 
wayfaring Gangrel Vikings centuries ago. Originally a 
Finnish witch, she married Eric Bloodaxe and fought 
the Christian advance of Olaf Tryggvason before her 
Embrace. Although her struggle and use of blood magic 
eventually failed to stop her people’s conversion, she 
survived well past the fall of Uppsala, the sacred royal 
Lambach’s Purpose
[Tzimisce] saw something in Lambach Ruthven 
to consider him worthy of Becoming. Lambach has 
reputedly seen the Antediluvian twice in recent 
times; once when Lugoj “drained” it and a second 
time beneath New York’s streets. Both times, he 
survived, even though he saw things he should not 
have. The question, however, remains: Why? Un-
beknownst to anyone, including Lambach himself, 
he is the Eldest’s chronicler. He is the eyes and ears 
of his master and documents the clan’s actions while 
the Antediluvian remains in torpor. Occasionally, 
when danger is about to befall Lambach, the Eldest 
imbues him with a portion of its strength or power to 
allow him to escape and run. Lambach will survive 
until the end times; he will be the last Tzimisce to 
fall to the internal scourge of his sire’s million-fold 
teeth. Until then, he is truly immortal; the Eldest 
will not let him perish.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
24
lands of Freya herself. Because of Gunnhild’s standing 
among the local Gangrel who still called upon Odin 
in battle, the Sabbat entered Scandinavia with little 
difficulty, and we gained valuable allies in the fight 
against the Camarilla. 
During our internment in the frozen lands, the 
Scandinavian Tzimisce introduced the Sabbat to the 
notion of the Jomsvikings. These warriors once ranked 
among the Fiend-witch’s entourage, but Gunnhild 
lost them in the war against Christianity. Still, the 
notions of Jomsborg, the training camp erected by the 
Danish King Harald Bluetooth, proved sound. The 
Jomsvikings swore a blood oath (as the Sabbat had done) 
and followed strict codes, rigorous training regimens 
and various rites to strengthen solidarity. While the 
notion of a “Sabbat training camp” did not work well 
with the nomadic existence of our sect, new ritae could 
effectively incorporate the training of fledglings. In 
fact, each pack became a training ground for recruits; 
so long as one member survived, the Sabbat survived. 
Thus far, we’d done well to introduce various auctoritas 
ritae for the benefit of the sect as a whole. We failed 
to make the packs cohesive beyond the Vaulderie, 
however. With the help of koldunic and hlaut rituals, 
and the precepts of the Jomsvikings, the ignoblis ritae 
evolved. These rites later compartmentalized the entire 
Sabbat movement, allowing the sect to function like 
the mythical Hydra. 
Despite Gunnhild’s hospitality, we knew the 
Sabbat could not remain in Scandinavia. While the 
Turks prepared to sate their gluttonous appetites on 
the Tremere stronghold of Vienna, the Sabbat knew 
this provided the brief distraction it needed to escape 
its frozen home. We looked elsewhere and cast an eye 
to the New World.
The Puppet Room
It’s in some mansion just outside the city. It 
invited my pack over for a private ritus one night, 
but I’m telling you, I’m never going back. Grating 
covered the entire ceiling and they never showed us 
the second floor. In fact, it stayed upstairs as well and 
spoke to us through the grate. I still remember that 
foul smelling shit that dribbled through the metal 
lattice. The servants who lead us around were all 
connected to umbilical cords like animated puppet 
strings that snaked up through the ceiling. When 
it came time to feed, we were supposed to tip our 
heads back and accept whatever dripped down. 
Fuck that, we bolted.


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
25
The Land of Plenty
Again we stood at the prow of the Sabbat while his-
tory’s storm raged about us. Young sect members fled to 
the New World, hoping to earn the freedom that their 
elders and the failure of the Anarch Revolt denied them. 
Certainly, many Lupines plagued the Americas’ virgin 
expanses, but at least the Sabbat could fight that threat. 
The sect could not wage the so-called revolution in Europe 
openly. Instead, the Camarilla played games of politics 
and intrigue deftly, frustrating the sect by depriving us 
of supporters and eating away at our territories. Many 
antitribu left first, followed by young Fiends.
The elder Tzimisce could not stand leaving their 
ancestral homes behind, regardless of their commitments 
to the Sabbat. Instead, they encouraged us, the younger 
Fiends, to traverse the Atlantic first and offered us large 
retinues of revenants. It was the least the European 
Tzimisce who didn’t want to risk the journey could do. 
This shortsightedness cost us, however, for we couldn’t 
trust revenants loyal to masters hundreds of miles away; 
this allowed a fair number to escape into the wilderness. 
Still, those of us who survived the two-month journey 
by boat scattered across our new home and carried the 
Sabbat initiative with us. It was a vibrant and violent 
world, from the native conflicts to the eventual colonial 
independence. We were there for it all, and we even 
formed several packs to help rout the British Cainites 
during the American Revolution. Heartened by our vic-
tory over the English and hidden Ventrue agendas, the 
Sabbat in Europe helped foment the insurrection that 
toppled the Paris aristocracy. Meanwhile, we, who once 
prized our isolation in the secluded Carpathians, realized 
we preferred the burgeoning American cities. (At least, 
the young Fiends did — some elders still clutched with 
ever more desperate talons to their crumbling castles and 
inbred boyars.) The wilderness crawled with Lupines 
and potent spirits, and the modern cities bore more in 
common with our sprawling keeps (as well as providing 
stable food stock). 
Unfortunately, while Cardinal Radu and a few other 
elders crossed the Atlantic, the younger Sabbat who’d 
made the effort to colonize it considered it home and 
protected their domains fiercely; I didn’t blame them 
either. After claiming we’re all equal, Radu and the 
others stepped in to take advantage of our hard work. 
The older Sabbat, Fiends included, suddenly discovered 
sect members no longer welcomed them in this so-called 
“Land of Opportunity.” To further aggravate the matter, 
most cities were less than a century old and not large 
enough to host a coven of Cainites looking to strike 
out on their own. The Sabbat-Camarilla conflict swiftly 
degenerated into the sect’s first civil war, with young 
Tzimisce leading the charge. The Americas should have 
been our hard-earned prize for the work we put into set-
tling her. Instead, we fought over space and resources 
in struggles reminiscent of contemporary gang warfare. 
Mortals became precious commodities when feeding 
thinned the herds. Oh, the history books say that cholera 
and smallpox decimated the smaller cities, but we did 
not help by overfeeding and serving as plague carriers. 
While we fought one another, the Camarilla stepped in 
and entrenched itself in the United States even further. 
Such a slap in the face! The Camarilla pushed us out of 
the cities, forcing us to take refuge among the Native 
American tribes or in the precarious wilderness.
While the Purchase Pact settled the internecine 
fighting, the damage had already been done. The Ca-
marilla took root in the United States, with only New 
York remaining firmly in Sabbat hands. The Sabbat fled 
into Mexico, Canada and the southwest United States, 
where the Camarilla held little influence. Ironically, the 
Tzimisce found shelter outside the cities, with groups 
of subjugated mortals. While we fed from the enslaved 
populace brought over from Africa, our strongest and 
youngest packs remained hidden among the southwestern 
tribes of Apache, Navajo, Zuni and Hopi Indians. The 
peaceful Hopi, in particular, treated our kind as manifes-
tations of their wuya, their Kachina spirits. We, in turn, 
played the parts of their avatars. We became the White 
Ogre who demanded food lest we steal their children. 
We played the Badger as healer and advisor, the Vulture 
who brought them winds with our koldunic rituals, the 
Eagle who guided them out from the Underworld of their 
creation myths, and most importantly, we assumed the 
role of the Star Whippers, their chief Kachinas and sacred 
wisemen. In turn, they never questioned our appearance 
as wuya and protected us while we rested in their kivas 
(subterranean chambers below each house that they 
thought were portals to the Underworld). 
This arrangement served us well for decades and 
influenced how we treated pack members and conducted 
our rituals. Later, we strengthened our hold in the region 
during the mortal Civil War. The Dineh, more commonly 
Remembering Gunnhild
Christ, I remember that old witch. She scared 
the hell out of me. I remember when she invited 
us to watch her perform the rista orn — the blood-
eagle. It’s called that because it looks like you’re 
carving eagle wings into the victim’s back. What 
you’re actually doing is cutting the ribs away one by 
one down to the loins. Not enough to kill you, but 
enough to keep you alive and howling. After remov-
ing the ribs, the torturer reaches in and pulls out 
your lungs. That’s when you slowly choke to death.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
26
known as Navajo, earned the attention of the United 
States when growing conflicts between settlers and the na-
tives turned violent. After the Union drove Confederate 
forces out of New Mexico, they launched a campaign of 
repression against the Apaches and Dineh. For the latter 
tribe, it culminated when Union forces blocked them up 
in Canyon de Chelly and starved out thousands of Dineh 
natives. The army then relocated them in a forced march 
to the Pecos River Valley, leaving the canyon’s pueblo 
homes abandoned. Several Fiends moved into Canyon 
de Chelly with their revenants, turning it into a Tzimisce 
enclave. It’s remained such since then, even after the 
Dineh returned to their ancestral homes. 
The Dineh are currently the largest North Ameri-
can tribe, with 28,803 square miles allocated for their 
reservation. Because of this, the Camarilla exerts little 
influence over the area save through its limited con-
nections on a federal level. Meanwhile, the Tzimisce 
existing here constitute the largest gathering of Fiends 
in North America. Don’t mistakenly believe them 
full-fledged Sabbat, however, for the Tzimisce here are 
mostly Dineh now and have little to do with the sect’s 
conflicts. They do maintain regular discourse with 
Mexico’s Cainites and California’s few anarch Tzimisce, 
but they keep to themselves mostly.
Into the 
20th Century
By Salem Justice, Bishop of Miami 
Ever hear of the Boys from Brazil? You can’t tell me 
that Doktor Totentanz or Landulf didn’t try cloning “Der 
Führer.” I hear you guys have a secret camp in Ecuador where 
old Nazi doctors sit around all day getting served by blond 
Aryan boys in Speedos. C’mon, you can tell me. Did you 
guys clone Hitler? At least tell me you got Himmler, man.
—Boo, member of Atlanta’s Lawdogs pack
When the Sabbat earned its name, many Tzimisce 
remained neutral in the conflict, despite threats to their 
unlives by overzealous sect Fiends. These independent 
Tzimisce forestalled any oaths of sect allegiance by sur-
rendering the first- and second-born of their revenant 
families to the Sabbat as a show of good faith. Everyone 
realized such promises bore little weight in reality. Still, 
many young Tzimisce knew they could ill afford pro-
tracted conflict with their elders. They settled on the 
gift of revenants and left their oldest members to rot.
Landulf II earned his legacy in the 9th century as a 
black magician in the Arthurian grail legends. Named 
the third most important man in the kingdom of Emperor 
Louis II, he controlled land from Naples to Calabria 
until the Vatican excommunicated him in AD 875. 
Rather than suffer under Carpathian influence, Landulf II 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
27
allowed an African Fiend who claimed lineage to the 
Methuselah Demdemeh to Embrace him. As Tzimisce, 
Landulf maintained the castle Calot Enbolot in Sicily, 
where he studied koldunic sorcery and earned a reputation 
as a torturer among the local populace. Landulf II fostered 
these false accusations, if only to keep the curious away 
from his haven. Like his peers, he swore fealty to neither 
Transylvania nor the Sabbat. Instead, he consorted with 
North Africa’s Cainites, and after the Convention of 
Thorns, enjoyed the protection of the Giovanni. The 
Sabbat and Camarilla could not reach him.
Landulf reemerged from hiding in the twilight of 
the 19th century when the German Order Walvater of 
the Holy Grail used the swastika, his heraldic device, 
as their standard. While the symbol itself appeared in 
other cultures, the combination of anti-Semitism, occult 
rituals and the belief in a race of “pure” humans proved 
too enticing to ignore. Landulf encouraged the society 
and helped foster its atmosphere of racial superiority by 
claiming members as ghouls. Truthfully, Landulf consid-
ered one kine sect as inferior as the next. Whether the 
GOWHG spoke out against Jews or Catholics made little 
difference to him. Their drive for purity and thirst for 
occult enlightenment interested him more. 
Although Landulf helped, the German Order and 
its successor, the infamous Thule Society, needed little 
to fan the flames of their fanaticism and blind hatred. 
By the time the Bavarian elite adopted the GOWHG’s 
principles, Landulf and a small number of Tzimisce had 
ensconced themselves in the organization. Most other 
Fiends, already sensing the growing fires of hatred even 
before WWI smothered Europe in choking poisons, 
steered clear of the conflict. Humanity’s proficiency with 
war had grown considerably, and each conflict not only 
thinned the herds, but threatened the unlives of regional 
Cainites. Wars and Inquisitions proved the only storms 
capable of cowing the Damned. Meanwhile, the list of 
bigoted mortals grew; a defrocked kine monk by the name 
of Adolf Lanz demanded imprisonment and sterilization 
of “socially inferior elements” and anyone who indulged 
in sexual relations outside of their “race.” Another man, 
Liebenfels, established a temple for his New Templars 
on the Danube and advocated neo-paganism and the 
abandonment of Christianity. Secret societies and cults 
proliferated in the Germanic states and provided a handful 
of shortsighted Tzimisce with a new nobility from which 
to draw members from and improve their own standings. 
The introduction of tanks and mustard gas turned 
WWI battlefields into a perpetual night of chaos and 
smoke-shielded skies. This mortal-borne Gehenna proved 
little deterrent to the Fiends themselves. Many younger 
Tzimisce slipped deep into the earth when they knew of 
an approaching battle. When they awoke, they rose from 
the blood-soaked soil and found themselves in a forest 
of the wounded or dying. If the Slavic tribes had once 
provided an unending supply of victims and test subjects, 
then WWI was a Renaissance of pain and cruelty. The 
Tzimisce left many a corpse twisted and sheared right on 
the battlefield, forcing mortals to wonder what terrible 
weapon inflicted such cruelty. The Masquerade held, if 
only because death had become so bizarre and alien in 
the new century, thanks to kine advancements.
Meanwhile, in Anatolia, the first of the 20th century’s 
genocide-trends began with the massacre of two million 
Armenians by the doddering Ottoman Empire. Eastern 
European Tzimisce, such as Sascha Vykos, were well in 
position to pilfer 100 victims here and there to strengthen 
their ghouls, restock their dwindling supply of szlachta and 
fill their kennels with new experiments. The Tzimisce also 
agreed to create new revenant families, since only four 
known lines survived the recent centuries. Ghouls such as 
the Armenian Kindairjan, however, are, at best, decades 
away from becoming revenants, if the process works at all. 
To the east, the Bolshevik Revolution gripped Russia 
and sealed the Tzimisce behind the Iron Curtain. Truthfully, 
this proved advantageous to the Old World Fiends of the 
Rus. With the borders heavily monitored and protected, 
Tzimisce such as Piotr Krezhinsky (childe to Darvag, the 
Butcher of Rus) did not answer to the Sabbat and went 
about enjoying the new political air of repression and terror. 
Early America
World War II erupted in Europe, which goes without 
saying. Fiends, such as Landulf II and Nazi proselytizer 
Doktor Totentanz, waded into the bloody battlefield 
with their pant legs rolled up, tarnishing our name by 
associating with the Nazis and wasteful programs like 
genocide. Stateside, our clan had an entirely different 
set of problems. Without the crucible of war to threaten 
their borders, the Americans fluctuated politically and 
morally from one generation to the next. The Sabbat, 
Flesh Masks
The Sabbat could claim responsibility for the 
murders, patroun, but the truth is, nobody in Mexico 
City knows who’s committing them. From what I 
understand, it’s a vendor who wears and sells color-
ful masks to people in stopped cars at traffic lights. 
As soon as a person puts the mask on, it turns out 
to be alive and digs into his head with bone hooks. 
It chews the wearer’s face off, then spits out the 
chunks through its mouth. The mask controls the 
wearer, forcing him to rampage through the streets 
in an orgy of violence. I really don’t know why this 
Tzimisce is hiding though. I know a few Sabbat who 
want to shake his hand.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
28
trying to tap into the pulse of each generation by Em-
bracing their youth, discovered that sect members of 
one generation became anachronisms the next. 
At first, America lived up to its reputation as the land 
of plenty. Immigration into the US saw the arrival of over 
450 million European refugees between 1845 and 1914, 
providing Cainites with a surfeit of vitae. Perhaps foolishly, 
we threw ourselves into the hedonism of the Roaring 20s 
and allowed our numbers to grow unchecked. The sect war 
with the Camarilla had quietened for the moment, and 
many Tzimisce pursued their private agendas or basked in 
the festive atmosphere of America’s Golden Age. The First 
World War saw thousands of jobs in northern industrial 
factories open up, resulting in a large population shift 
of black Americans from the south. Large communities 
developed in Chicago, Detroit and Buffalo, with Harlem 
itself becoming a mecca of prosperity for hundreds of blacks 
from around the US. Although the Toreador antitribu 
might proclaim themselves as the only patrons of art, 
the fact remained that a number of Tzimisce shared their 
interests. Harlem, styled the “New Negro Capital,” saw 
the birth of Afro-centric art forms, including jazz. This 
in turn drew many soon-to-be-great musicians including 
Duke Ellington, Fats Waller and Cab Calloway. Ethnic 
Tzimisce went so far as to sponsor nightclubs or throw rent 
parties to promote the festive atmosphere and liberal stance 
toward sexuality (and, naturally, to draw their herds from). 
Of course, the local Tzimisce often clashed with Toreador 
over “proprietorship” of Harlem’s mortal talent, but the 
fighting rarely erupted in the open. Instead, it manifested 
as nightclubs like Gumby’s Bookstore and the Daisy Chain 
quietly competed with one another for clientele or in the 
occasional “gangland” hit. 
Unfortunately, the Great Depression saw to the demise 
of Harlem’s promise. The government’s so-called laissez faire 
policy gave rise to a disparity between the economic classes 
(with one percent of the populace wielding 40 percent 
of the wealth) and upended the social standings of many 
Tzimisce. A fair number of elders who’d enjoyed nobility 
and unprecedented wealth in the Old World, suddenly 
found their assets nearly depleted or gone, while younger 
Fiends, savvy to the economy of the time, used their mortal 
influences to jockey into a position of financial security. 
Still, this didn’t help the Sabbat, which prided itself on its 
independence from mortal concerns. The Camarilla, tak-
ing advantage of the thoroughly corrupt administration of 
President Harding in the early 1920s to buy off key officials 
and politicians, used their new friends to harry the Sab-
bat. Police launched daytime raids against our communal 
or private havens under orders to clear out the squatters, 
while bankers foreclosed on our assets under the broken 
terms of forged loans. We fought back, but remained on 
the defensive well past WWII.
The Sabbat-Camarilla conflict turned into a paper 
war, and many old-guard Tzimisce, affiliated with the 
sect or not, could not defend themselves in these forums. 
Instead, they continually relied on Embracing newer 
generations of mortals to serve as their vanguard, inad-
vertently creating a vast generation gap between them 
and their progeny. The elders used the young Fiends as 
their contemporary proxies but not without staunch 
resistance. Young Tzimisce wanted to explore their own 
unlives and not be burdened by their anachronistic sires. 
As a result, these neonate Tzimisce gravitated toward 
the independent-minded Sabbat and adopted its more 
violent precepts as a means of “threatening” their elders. 
After all, the Tzimisce young did rebel once before in the 
name of freedom and could easily do so again.
WWII’s Aftermath
Hitler’s rise to power brought a twofold invasion 
across Eastern Europe’s soil — the German advance, fol-
lowed by the Russian pursuit. When the Nazis stormed 
the continent, Sabbat Tzimisce feared little. They took 
advantage of the reign of terror and used the chaos to 
strike at weakened Camarilla holdings. Their prime ad-
vantage lay in the fact that Hitler despised aristocracy, 
thus barring many elder Camarilla Kindred from influ-
encing the regime. Conversely, the Old World Tzimisce 
fit the description of nobility to the letter. Rather than 
risk calling down the entire German Wehrmacht, they 
allowed the Nazis to plunder their keeps for trinkets while 
keeping their havens, true treasure and szlachta hidden.
If the Tzimisce suffered little from the Germans, then 
the Russians offered plenty of misery by comparison. The 
Red Army fought its battles by saturating their targets for 
days beneath a barrage of artillery. Then they advanced 
across the smoldering terrain, dispensing with the remain-
ing opposition. The retreating German army fortified itself 
within the ancient keeps between Russia and Berlin. The 
most powerful Tzimisce managed to obscure or hide their 
fortresses using arcane sorcery, but many met Final Death 
when the Russians shelled their occupied manses from a 
distance. The torpid Shaagra, one of the eldest of the Old 
World Tzimisce, burned to ash along with Prague, sending 
shockwaves through fractured Tzimisce society.
The havens of many elder Tzimisce also fell under 
Communist rule. Old World Tzimisce had lost much 
during the war, and Stalin’s madness threatened to take 
away even more. Realizing their precarious positions, 
the elder Fiends sent envoys to their cousins trapped 
behind the USSR’s borders. Their efforts toward 
solidarity created the Oradea League, a mutual defense 
agreement and statement of purpose (autonomy from 
the Sabbat) among Old World Tzimisce. Ironically, 
the league flourished because of Communism; Stalin’s 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
29
bers joined the sect as “diplomats,” advisors, honorary 
bishops and prisci in the modern nights. 
Russia’s Fiends
Piotr Krezhinsky, a survivor of Ivan the Terrible’s 
rule over Russia, played voivode, while Darvag, his sire, 
slipped in and out of torpor. The collapse of Czarist 
rule to the Bolshevik Revolution severed the lines of 
communication between the Russian Tzimisce and our 
European clanmates. Still, we survived, finding Stalin’s 
paranoid regime much better suited to our collective 
temperament. While the Brujah focused on their 
grand designs and aspirations for Communism, Stalin 
destroyed churches and persecuted the religious. This, 
in turn, robbed the mortal populace of their faith and 
destroyed much of what was once holy ground, thus 
allowing many Damned to act with greater impunity. 
Meanwhile Piotr busied himself by ensconcing a few 
Fiends in the Cheka, or secret police, because it allowed 
us unprecedented intelligence on affairs both within 
and outside the Soviet Union’s borders. 
By the time the Cheka finally became the OGPU 
(United State Political Directorate), we had a steady flow 
of hundreds of unaccounted-for prisoners and victims 
for our herds from the millions thought murdered and 
buried in unmarked pits. WWII proved that our clan 
The Atrium
It isn’t bullshit; I’ve seen it. The old Fiend owns 
the high-rise hotel and had it built to her specifica-
tions. It’s posh and upscale, with a beautiful rooftop 
garden. What nobody knows is that the garden sits 
atop a hidden atrium that runs the building’s length 
and is packed with the Tzimisce’s native soil. She 
sleeps where it’s deepest, far from harm. Supposedly, 
she’s got emergency exits from the atrium into certain 
rooms. The hotel concierge directs lone travelers 
into those suites and never registers them as hav-
ing entered. The old Fiend uses her… well, I guess 
they’re arms… to snag these guests from their beds 
and pull them into the dirt with her. Meanwhile, 
the cleaning service steals all their possessions when 
they clear the room out.…
xenophobia protected them from the sect by way of 
restricted travel, and the Tzimisce were reunited with 
Russian Fiends like Darvag and Piotr Krezhinsky for the 
first time in decades. By the fall of the Soviet Union, 
the now stronger Oradea League resisted the Sabbat’s 
bullying without falling prey to its thirsty packs. In a 
show of solidarity, however, many of the league’s mem-


Clanbook: Tzimisce
30
remained as vulnerable as our weakest link: mortals. To 
prevent another vitae shortage because of the underfed 
and winnowed populace, many Fiends maintained pri-
vate herds for feeding or vassalage should another war 
ever devastate Europe again. Ironically, many mortals 
entered these arrangements willingly, because we fed 
them well and even ensured them some measure of 
comfort compared to Russia’s abject poverty.
Additionally, some clever Tzimisce also arranged for 
a handful of small gulag concentration camps and KGB 
prisons out of the 2000 facilities across Arctic Russia to 
fall into the hands of their Bratovitch majordomos. By 
estimates, the early Russian regime incarcerated close to 
10 percent of its population in the gulags. Vorkuta Camp 
alone killed more prisoners than Auschwitz, though 
admittedly over a longer period of time. These facilities 
became unrestricted havens for the Tzimisce to exist 
openly without fear of discovery. Unfortunately, as we’ve 
often discovered, when there are few restrictions, some 
of our brethren can take their proclivities to extremes. 
Conversely, Russia possessed no state agencies to ensure 
the well-being of gulag prisoners. Thus, the Tzimisce still 
speak excitedly of Tmu Tarakan, the Kingdom of Cock-
roaches, where prisoners ate a diet of their fellow inmates, 
slept on beds of decaying corpses and drowned in a soup 
of their own entrails. If this had happened anywhere 
else in the world, we would have suffered apocalyptic 
repercussions for drawing such attention to ourselves. 
Not all Tzimisce took interest in the gulags, however. 
Some young Tzimisce found interest with Biopreparat, 
the Soviet Union’s biological warfare initiative. Many 
of us knew about the Eldest’s essence within our own 
bodies, and the study of bacteriological warfare spurred 
on arguments of whether we could isolate portions of 
the Antediluvian within ourselves. Piotr lead the camp 
of Fiends who sought a way to attack these cancerous 
invaders before the Antediluvian awoke. Many also 
feared that biological programs could devastate our 
feeding stock if they progressed unchecked. So, to better 
protect our interests, a number of our brightest members 
infiltrated the Soviet Union’s Ministry of Medical and 
Microbiological Industries, a quiet euphemism for their 
bioweapons program under the Main Intelligence Direc-
torate (GRU). Called Biopreparat, the Russians worked 
to develop new strains and vectors for diseases ranging 
from typhus to Ebola. Some young Fiends even played 
at developing Cainite pathogens that targeted specific 
clans, blood viruses that could turn entire populations 
into our ghouls or even methods of turning viruses into 
microbial ghouls. We insured that nearly three genera-
tions of Obertus revenants learned a dizzying array of 
the new sciences including biochemistry, epidemiology, 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
31
virology and microbiology. Soon, our spies found work 
in hidden facilities at “Rebirth Island” in the Aral Sea 
and at Solovetsky, the nexus prison camp of the gulags. 
Unfortunately, while our ghouls made some ad-
vancements, particularly in the field of recombinant 
DNA and so-called chimerical viruses, the Soviet Union 
collapsed. Suddenly scientists, viral material stored in 
the Moscow Institute of Health, ex-KGB agents and 
weapons-grade plutonium all appeared on the interna-
tional black market. Several key ghouls also vanished 
with their research, sending us scrambling to find them. 
To date, we’ve had little success.…
Tomorrow’s 
Tzimisce
By Jackrabid, ex-templar
Hear about the trailer-home caravan roving up and down 
the Eastern Seaboard? It’s a traveling haven for a Fiend and 
her entourage of Bratovitches. From the outside, it looks like 
a caravan of retirees with tinted windows, Florida bumper 
stickers and Jesus fish plaques. Inside, it’s a mobile abattoir 
and freakshow museum. They’re like nomadic serial kill-
ers, traveling the country and never leaving behind enough 
evidence to get caught. It’s true. It’s true.
— Bartholomew Diggs, member of the Road Kilt 
nomadic pack.
Hitler still lives, or at least his malignant message 
does. Only a handful of elder Tzimisce participated 
in the rise of pre-WWII mysticism, but some Fiends 
Embraced in the post-war era came to see this as the 
Sabbat’s acceptance of the Holocaust. Certainly, these 
individuals didn’t help the situation when they Embraced 
glatzen (“baldies” or German skinheads) to “continue the 
struggle.” Unfortunately, these same fucking Tzimisce 
have supervised a rise in racist Brothers and Sisters in 
the decade following the collapse of the USSR. The 
wave of Eastern European refugees instilled venom 
into the youth of Western Europe who, to this night, 
remain bitter over unemployment and degrading social 
conditions. That anger exploded into racial violence, 
bringing the Tzimisce new generations of followers.
Among the new breed of Tzimisce glatzen is Weiss-
rarech — White Vengeance — a leader of a European 
neo-Nazi pack. She took the time to explain to me this 
new trend emerging among some of our younger clan-
mates. She is also childe to Doktor Totentanz, a WWII 
holdover of Nazi “values” and, frankly, an embarrassment 
to our clan. Although she’s barely existed for a decade, 
Weissrarech’s seen Europe burdened beneath 750,000 
refugees escaping ethnic cleansing and poverty. The 
Soviet collapse proved a godsend for elder Tzimisce, 
who could finally reclaim their former aristocratic 
mantles and titles within the Carpathians’ keeps. To 
Weissrarech, however, Communism’s fall brought about 
Egypt’s Eleventh Plague: the refugee flood.
Weissrarech concentrates her efforts on the dispos-
sessed population, a group of kine everyone ignores. 
Whether her packs raid slum apartment towers in 
Marseilles and Berlin, attack West African harvesters 
in the Italian and English countryside or assault Bosnian 
The Communist Legacy
The West always knew that Communism made 
little consideration for environmental concerns, 
but the full scope of that knowledge did not come 
to light until after the fall of the Iron Curtain. The 
USSR turned Bulgaria, Romania, Czechoslovakia, 
Poland and East Germany into toxic pits. Now, 
factories spill sulfur into the air, creating acid rain 
so potent that it strips entire forests of their foliage 
and branches. All that remains of some forests are 
blackened poles and mountains topped in sulfuric 
mists. Mining and smelting operations release clouds 
of metallic particulate into the air, afflicting genera-
tions of children with a variety of lung diseases and 
mental disabilities. Even after all of this, it is far 
worse in Romania, where coal strip mining turns 
the air black thanks to places like Copsa Mica’s 
Carbosin Plant. A thick layer of soot covers buildings 
and trees, creating a landscape devoid of colors. It 
snows black flakes in the evening, carbon particles 
saturate the mists and clouds, soiling the very sky, 
and even sheep are of night’s hue. 
Environmental advocates scream pollution, 
but the various governments act too slowly. Both 
Old World Tzimisce and elder Sabbat Fiends find 
their once rich and proud landscapes drowning in 
physical and psychological oppression. Romanian 
dictator Nicolae Ceaucescu kept his people broken 
and poor while ravaging the countryside in the name 
of industry. Now, ironically, the Tzimisce advocate 
change, if only because pollution taints their herds 
through cancer and mercury poisoning, while acid 
rain destroys its fair share of monuments, including 
the many ancient Carpathian keeps that Fiends 
still dwell beneath. The Old World crumbles away, 
literally, and the Tzimisce once again find them-
selves broaching a new arena of experience, that of 
environmental concerns. Ironically, their opposi-
tion is a mixture of mortal bureaucratic leviathans 
(holdovers from the Communist era) with a vested 
interest in the factories and the greed of Kindred 
who seem to sing the name of Kupala in their sleep.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
32
Refugee Camps in Croatia, Weissrarech brings with her 
an impressive crusade of young Sabbat Tzimisce and 
antitribu glatzen. To my understanding, the Camarilla as-
signed two archons to locate and eliminate Weissrarech’s 
pack, but they’ve had little success thus far. The Sabbat, 
in turn, supports Weissrarech’s war.
Racism is not the purview of Weissrarech alone. It 
echoes across the Atlantic in the cries of some American 
Tzimisce. During the 18th century, some packs developed 
an interest in prejudice after it evolved from religious and 
ethnic intolerance into “scientific” racism. Hatred adopted 
a new form. Although notions of racial purity and genetic 
cleansing were older than harlots and tax collectors, hu-
manity learned how to apply rapidly advancing technology 
toward the industry of genocide. Still, most Fiends remained 
uninterested in the white-hooded hate-mongers who 
rode into public attention following the Civil War. The 
Camarilla, duped by their own propaganda, assumed their 
enemies would relish hiding behind masks and “hangin’ 
niggers,” but few Sabbat wanted to be around a group of 
furious mortals wielding flaming crosses. 
Advocates of scientific racism later increased their 
numbers by Embracing a group of rioters from the Detroit 
Race Riots of 1943. President Roosevelt had issued an 
executive order prohibiting racial discrimination in 
factories with military contracts. The influx of 60,000 
blacks from the southern states looking for work in the 
more progressive North sparked riots in cities such as 
Detroit, where 35 people died, 500 were injured and an-
other 500 arrested for the murders of African-Americans. 
Excuse me; blacks. Fuck Jesse Jackson, not for his skin 
color, but for his politics. But I’m getting carried away.
I use pack priest Abraham Jensen as an example 
of a growing substrata emerging within our clan. Ar-
rested during the riots, Jensen claimed membership in 
the second incarnation of the Ku Klux Klan, a hate 
group whose fellowship dropped significantly between 
the 1920s and its temporary disbanding in 1944 due 
to lack of interest. Although the Klan resurfaced dur-
ing the Civil Rights movements of the 1950s and 60s, 
Abraham came to see genetic purity as something that 
existed beyond the limits of his five senses. He under-
stood how racists could mistake “white” for pure and 
appreciated the hatred that prejudice sparked. What 
at first appeared to be a minor movement, however, 
quickly grew. Many Tzimisce believed Hitler’s ideals 
died with WWII, but when a returning American GI 
named George Lincoln Rockwell formed the American 
Nazis, the Fiends realized this was just the beginning. 
Cainites, like Abraham, were in a position to capitalize 
on these nascent movements. 
WWII served as catalyst for the Civil Rights Move-
ment. After all, if the government could draft blacks in 
service to their country, why couldn’t this minority enjoy 
equal rights? Of course, this proved a watershed issue for 
the nation, with extremist camps forming on all sides of the 
color barrier. Groups such as the White Aryan Resistance 
and the National Association for the Advancement of 
White People called for strict segregation, while behind 
the scenes, more insidious cells formed like blisters. The 
more pseudoscience justified racism, the more outlandish 
respective claims became. Some groups adhered to the 
Nazi principles that the Aryan race originated from the 
mythic island of Thule. Others adopted a strange fusion 
of Hindu-Aryan philosophy, claiming civilization’s cradle 
was Aryavarta in India. On the other side of the argu-
ment came black militants calling Caucasians an albinoid 
mutation of the African people or “Yaccub’s children.” A 
smaller segment claimed that since melanin was a superior 
absorber of energies, then white people were further from 
God (the source of all energy) because they were lacking 
in skin pigment. 
Militant Tzimisce involved with these movements 
stayed away from the public marches and press-staged 
events; instead, they frequented the packed underground 
concerts of Storm und Drang and Africa X, plying their 
craft among the thick and angry young crowds. Some 
Tzimisce even allowed events to take place on their 
private property, immersing themselves in hatred and 
reaping the guests at the end of the evening. Fiends, 
Abraham included, dominate the small cults and cells 
that search for the purity of their ancestors. These kine 
willingly undergo any body augmentation suggested by 
the Tzimisce in the mortals’ quest to emulate Tzimisce 
ideals, leaving the Fiends more than happy to impose their 
visions of perfection. The Blood Brothers formed thanks 
to such physical tampering and mixing of ideologies. It’s 
why they’ve all got those fucking bald heads.
Modern Primitives
The various hate groups are not the only movements 
enjoying Tzimisce attention. While one group plays 
on racist ignorance, another is far more interested in 
approaching those of genuine Metamorphosist inclina-
tion. We find that in one mortal subculture of particular 
interest: the modern primitive. 
Modern primitives are displaced individuals who find 
difficulty reconciling their existence in these neoteric 
nights. Where once tribes and villages provided these 
people with a sense of belonging and spirituality, they 
now stalk those circles dealing with sex fetishes and body 
alterations (a feeble substitute at best). They haunt places 
like Greenwich Village’s underground flesh trade and the 
darker alleys of Castro Street, where S&M circuit parties 
and piercing and branding clubs push the limits of pain 
tolerance and impart some sense of accomplishment. The 


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
33
phenomena of body alteration and pain tolerance have 
grown over the last 20 years. Experts attribute the move-
ment to the need for a simpler existence like that found 
in primitive cultures, where one celebrates adulthood with 
tests and rites of passage. To these individuals, tattoos, 
brands and piercings are not only decorative, but also 
trophies of endurance and perseverance. It is this state of 
mental alteration that shamans and sadhus experience, the 
point where pain becomes irrelevant and even necessary to 
induce insight and euphoria. We Tzimisce, long acquainted 
with such principles in the search for transcendence, oc-
casionally encountered mortification cults worshiping the 
various Cainites-turned-gods. Modern primitives, however, 
represent a new breed of mortals, willing to endure extreme 
purgation as a show of strength in life.
Through these rare and often marginalized individuals, 
we have uncovered a segment of Western society delib-
erately searching for torture and unusual punishments to 
better test their own limits. They use torture as a test of 
mettle and view scars as the ultimate badges of honor. 
More than the trendy teens who go for the tribal tattoo 
around their arms, these individuals seek a primitive state of 
existence in which suffering defines humanity. Amusingly, 
most mortals also expect their sessions to last an evening 
and no more. We, being far more patient than that, draw 
out their ministrations over months. We Embrace those 
who survive or have the fortitude to endure week and after 
week of torture and still return for more.
No longer limited by the constraints of flesh, some of 
our new childer seek to redefine their very existences by 
mixing their unlives with neo-native and Asian mysti-
cism. They partake of vision quests using pain as their 
drug, hoping to find their totem animals. Others apply 
the Taoist quest for biological alchemy and personal 
perfection through meditation and internal alteration. 
Whether they realize it or not, these neo-pagans, body 
artists, modern primitives and human pincushions are 
fast becoming the new Metamorphosists among the 
latter-generation Tzimisce. Their quest for change is 
genuine, and their own alterations hold deep significance 
for them. Unfortunately, many slip through the Sabbat’s 
hands because they believe violence serves a function 
(like a signpost on their vision-road) and simply killing 
for the sake of killing is an affront to spiritual quests. 
Demdemeh
By Molly 8, chronicler for the Librarians pack
Africa has Tzimisce? 
— Dezra, Sabbat flunky
Africa’s history is one painted in words, and it is 
therefore difficult to strain the truth from embellish-
ment. Ancestors become gods, and the gods are the 
spirits of everything. As a result, we know little of the 
African Tzimisce, but the nights still echo with portions 
of their tale if you listen closely. What I know comes 
from Landulf II, the very same koldun sorcerer in league 
with the Giovanni. Unfortunately, we have no way to 
confirm his tales, since Africa remains an enigma. While 
undoubtedly Fiend, the African Tzimisce (or eggun) seem 
to pursue their own agendas and myths. They consider 
our presence a slight to their dignity for some strange 
reason and as easily attack us as bid us greetings. 
[Tzimisce], the Eldest, deliberately Embraced a 
multitude of peoples and tribes when it first left Enoch. 
It chose Yorak because of her — her — shamanistic 
wisdom; Lambach proved a survivor in the purest sense, 
as attested by his presence in the modern nights; the 
Eldest took Byelobog, as wild a mortal as the Eldest had 
ever met, to see how that influenced “the White God’s” 
evolution. It chose Triglav the Three-Headed because 
he already believed himself a deity; he cursed the monk 
Dracon because of his introspective and hermit nature. 
The Eldest allowed the brutal and inhuman warrior 
Kartarirya to act upon its whims. Demdemeh, however, 
puzzled the Eldest. As the first African it had ever met, 
Demdemeh earned the grand Fiend’s terrible atten-
tions. For every harm or injury the Eldest introduced 
to Demdemeh, however, the mortal turned the tables. 
The Progenitor would later recall to Yorak and 
Lambach that he turned Demdemeh inside out, with his 
organs and bones on the outside and his eyes facing into 
his head. When the Eldest asked him what he thought 
of the view, Demdemeh calmly replied that such a feat 
was nothing, given that all wise men had the ability to 
see within themselves. Impressed with such a strong 
mind, the Eldest Embraced Demdemeh and parted ways. 
Demdemeh returned to the land that would one day be 
the Sahara, which, in those nights, was still heavy with 
swamp and jungle and not yet ready to surrender to the 
encroaching desert. The tales say he traveled among the 
immortal-tribes of the Sao, Tibesti, those who followed 
the Kagn and the sun-eyed Bachwezi. Known as a fair 
and wise shaman, Demdemeh gathered his herds of 
followers till his too numbered among the larger tribes.
Africa of this epoch is not the place the world 
knows tonight. The great Ticonis Sea covered much 
of what would become the Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, 
Nigeria, Chad and Southern Algeria. Africa looked 
like a shepherd’s crook or question mark that began at 
the Atlantic coastline (just above the Gulf of Guinea), 
ran across the Mediterranean shoreline and down the 
eastern coast upon hitting the lands of Egypt. Set in 
this fading sea were the Algerian Ahaggar peaks, which 
formed an island mass in the Ticonis Sea connected to 
the rest of Africa by a thin isthmus. Demdemeh chose 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
34
these lands as his domain and settled there with his 
growing tribe, to better learn his new nature.
Demdemeh’s rule was not easy, for the Nile had its 
own monsters that challenged the Tzimisce’s presence. 
Still, he learned to speak with the marshland crocodiles 
and form hulking reptilian beasts called mokele and their 
baboon servitors, the naglopers. Protecting the people of 
the Ahaggar, Demdemeh built the great city of Khamissa 
to humble the Egyptians. Unfortunately, the Eldest’s 
touch afflicted Demdemeh over the centuries with a 
hunger for more than just blood. He feasted on banquets 
of flesh and became strange and alien to his own people. 
A row of gills covered his face like a grill, and he possessed 
no eyes, nose or mouth. Only his childer understood the 
whispered, incoherent sentences that he spoke.
By this time, the great Ticonis Sea was drying up 
and becoming swampland, while the Sahara swept into 
the land. The people of the Ahaggar fled, following 
those tribes who’d abandoned the fleeting paradise of 
the northern coast. The mokele rebelled against Dem-
demeh and escaped into the soft mud; they slipped 
into the swamplands after nearly decimating Khamissa. 
Meanwhile, the naglopers vanished into the night and 
traveled south, far from the clan’s reach. Demdemeh 
finally retired to a haunted mountain city of virtually 
no inhabitants save loyal ghouls and his childer. 
Sycorax
Demdemeh fell into the sleep of ages in a lake deep 
beneath the Ahaggar Mountains. Finally free from his 
watchful eye, his preeminent childe, the witch Sycorax, 
led the remaining eggun south across the now-dried 
Ticonis seabed. She left her sire in the care of his last 
loyal ghouls, the fierce Tuaregs, whose descendents 
remain in the region into the modern nights.
Sycorax intended to rule over the Nok cultures 
and the already established city of Ile-Ife as queen. She 
found her ambitions blocked by the arrival of nomads 
called the Yoruba, however. These people had lived in 
Egyptian lands for some centuries already and knew 
about the depredations of Cainites. Their leader, King 
Oduduwa, believed in the one-god Oludumare and his 
servitors, the Orisha. Unluckily for Sycorax, while King 
Oduduwa’s faith proved a strong foil to her ambitions, 
she had greater enemies in the Orisha who existed as 
spirits but could inhabit kine to fight her. 
The Yoruba followed a system of singular devotion, 
mighty faith and even stronger ethics. As a monotheistic 
belief, it proved as compassionate and upstanding as any 
Christian ethic. Before slavery ripped Africa’s heart out, 
the ajogun Yoruba warriors fought Sycorax and the cultic 
“followers of the Kagn,” harrying them across Africa. 
The ajogun proved troublesome (and still do) to the lo-
cal Fiends. Unlike Sycorax and the eggun, the ajogun are 
entirely of African heritage and despise the interference 
of Cainites, even if they are of African extraction. 
Forced into centuries of wandering and little peace, 
Sycorax eventually received satisfaction when European 
slavers tore West Africa asunder for their trade. After the 
Portuguese kidnapped 1.3 million slaves from the Angolan 
coast alone, Yoruba was in shambles. Slavers captured her 
people by the village-load, who could do little against the 
white locusts. If the ajogun despised outsiders before, the 
slave trade deepened their hatred greatly. 
Sycorax and her ilk may have survived their woes 
with the Yoruba, but the ajogun proved a greater enemy. 
By this point, Demdemeh had awoken from torpor and 
came to the aide of his daughter, but even he couldn’t turn 
the battle in favor of the Fiends. The ajogun commanded 
the very spirits of the land and turned the jungles against 
our brethren. The conflict forced Demdemeh and Sycorax 
into treaties with “white” Cainites who traveled with 
the traders, but these alliances were rarely to the eggun’s 
benefits. Tired of fighting a divisive war, Demdemeh and 
a small number of followers retired into Kenya’s Great 
Rift Valley, just east of Lake Victoria. While Sycorax 
eventually fell to the ajogun, the remaining African 
Tzimisce ensconced themselves into regional pockets 
close to the coastal strips and cities, where they survive 
to this night. While Landulf II claims the conflict with 
the ajogun is less severe, however, these native undead 
still prove troublesome to our interests. Whether they are 
Cainites or otherwise has yet to be ascertained.
Kartarirya
By Devinder Bhalla, priest of the Split Lip pack 
Ratti-Ben? I believe it means “Sister of Blood.” She’s 
the childe of Kartarirya. I met her recently and was stunned 
by her appearance. She’s covered in skin swatches with a 
different tattoo on each patch that she’s collected from her 
victims. She’s a quilted beauty.
— Laika, Tzimisce koldun
Kartarirya’s existence extends the length of the Indian 
subcontinent’s history, making it among the eldest and 
most powerful of our clan. It spent its earliest centuries 
with the Harappa culture and later with the Vedics who 
Totem
Aboriginal Tzimisce? Yeah, they’re rare around 
New Mexico, but I did meet one once. He looked 
normal till he opened his shirt up. A line of faces ran 
down the length of his body and jabbered on inces-
santly. We called him Totem, for obvious reasons.


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
35
brought Sanskrit into the region. It did not coexist with 
them peacefully, however, for the bloodthirsty Kartarirya 
drew the hostilities of the growing Rroma people and 
a Nosferatu Methuselah who’d settled into the region. 
Despite some conjecture, the region’s Tzimisce never 
inspired or emulated the multi-limbed avatars of the Hindu 
gods, though not for a lack of trying. Kartarirya tried im-
personating Karttikeya, the god of war, only to discover the 
Brahmans wielded their faith as weapons and saw through 
such artifice. Surprisingly, in its search to find worshipers 
among the growing Vedic pantheon, Kartarirya came to 
understand and appreciate their religion. The multi-limbed 
divinities represented multiple states of beings, interpreta-
tions and personalities. While the divinities were certainly 
terrifying to behold, the Indians accepted the complex and 
often conflicting gods and precepts as natural. Everything 
and everyone had their place and moment in time. En-
amored with the concept of multifaceted existence and 
perception, Kartarirya geared its transcendence toward 
that effort. Instead of seeking worship, Kartarirya sought 
to remold itself into a creature that could exist in multiple 
states of awareness simultaneously. 
Kartarirya fashioned the yakshi, demons by kine 
perception but horribly altered szlachta in reality. In the 
millennia following its arrival into the Indus Valley, Kar-
tarirya’s childer and yakshi schemed and fought against the 
growing Cainite presence. The Brujah, already familiar 
to the region through their influence in Mesopotamia, 
first arrived en masse when Alexander the Great’s armies 
swept through Hindu Kush and the Afghan Plateau. 
When Alexander died on his return journey, the Greek 
garrisons found themselves cut off from their homes and 
remained behind. A few Brujah stayed as well, eventually 
Embracing from the indigenous people. The Gangrel 
who rode with the Mongol hordes proved troublesome 
with their continued raids against the regional villages 
and towns, but eventually, the Indian culture absorbed 
them as well. The Toreador came with the French 
colonization of India in the 17th century, though later, 
a French-Indian Tzimisce by the name Grandmere Kale 
ousted the Toreador from the island of Reunnoinnais and 
came to live deep in the heart of its dormant volcano. 
Her domain became tsy laosana, a Madagascar phrase for 
“a place from which you never return.”
The Ventrue came well after the East Indian Com-
pany had established her monopoly over the region, but 
they proved of little concern to the local Fiends until 
the British suddenly went from a trading company to 
the ruling oppressors. The one place that remained 
beyond all outside influence, however, was opulent 
Hyderabad, a city blessed with Indo-Muslim heritage. 
From the 19th into the early 20th century, Hyderabad 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
36
played the exotic port of call for the world’s richest 
mortals and Cainites. Toreador aristocracy who’d seen 
their world shattered by the French Revolution flocked 
to the City of Palaces and its unique architecture that 
drew Muslim and Indian influences together effortlessly. 
High society, both sophisticated and exotic, intrigued 
vampires of all persuasions. Even the Ventrue couldn’t 
resist attending her courts and processions. Some even 
suspect the Khazars finally settled in what became Hy-
derabad, lending an air of timelessness to its mystery.
Of course, such beauty never lasts. Hyderabad’s 
patron was Omasam, a Rroma of Paigah nobility and 
among the richest of the maharajahs. Omasam fought 
against Tzimisce inclusion in the local courts at every 
turn and even employed local murshad magicians to 
cast spells on families with Tzimisce affiliations. This 
forced the Tzimisce’s hand in the region, relegating 
them to Embracing low-caste members after Omasam 
had their aristocratic ghouls murdered in their beds. 
Nobody realized the full repercussions of his actions 
until well after India’s independence, when the caste 
system itself degraded. 
Ratti-Ben, “Sister of Blood”
Ratti-Ben represents a changing consciousness 
in India, one Mahatma Gandhi would have mourned 
had he known the future. It began in August of 1947, 
during India’s partition into two nations: India and 
Pakistan. The previous years saw friction and outright 
hostility between Hindus and Muslims, and Kartarirya 
and its childer anticipated the worst. When arbitrators 
announced the borders at the last minute, 12 million 
Muslims, Sikhs and Hindus scrambled to find their 
respective sides of the borders using the only form of 
available mass transit, the train. Unfortunately for these 
travelers, these aging locomotives passed through the 
territory of one side or the other. Often times, trains 
would arrive at stations like Lahore — that served as the 
prime artery for travel both ways — with all its passengers 
butchered and massacred. Over one million people died 
in the Independence Day rioting, and while this was a 
mortal issue, the Tzimisce certainly contributed to the 
chaos with night’s arrival. 
With Kartarirya in torpor, it fell to Ratti-Ben, 
Kartarirya’s childe and a practitioner of baha mati black 
magic, to continue its agenda. Unlike many within her 
brood, Ratti-Ben could best be described as a terrorist 
trying to usurp the rule of the Rroma and oust the Ven-
true and Toreador from the Indian subcontinent. Her 
clan, long the underdogs in India’s political games and 
power plays, often resorted to blatant acts of violence 
to keep the other clans preoccupied with the backlash. 
The Fate of Demdemeh 
and Africa’s Tzimisce
I think we realized something was strange back in 
1967, when seven people in Marburg, Germany died 
of a new and mysterious infection. As it turned out, 
a vaccine manufacturer called Behring Works used 
contaminated African green monkeys taken from the 
border near Uganda and Kenya for research. In 1970, 
the University of Marburg published a paper on the 
bugger and the world gets its first taste of filoviruses 
and this little bastard called Ebola. Russia’s Main 
Directorate of the Council of Soviet Ministers, better 
known as our boys in Biopreparat, immediately jumps 
in with both feet. They send virologists to Mount 
Elgon and the Rift Valley, looking for the host species 
that originally vectored this disease. Not only do they 
find nothing, but the team also vanishes. That’s when 
some of Piotr’s boys put two and two together and 
remember the legends of the Methuselah Demdemeh 
and how he vanished with a few followers in — you 
got it — the Great Rift Valley.
Over the years, the CDC, USAMRIID and 
Biopreparat are running around hot zones whenever 
Ebola suddenly appears. With the fall of the Soviet 
Union, I finally get a chance to talk to Piotr and find 
out what he knows about these hemorrhagic viruses 
cropping up. Long and short of it is Biopreparat, after 
mapping out local hot zones and doing extensive 
groundwork in the region, thinks the virus originated 
in Mount Elgon’s Kitum Cave on the Uganda-Kenyan 
border. One case actually involved a British expatriate 
getting sick and dying from Ebola after visiting the 
cave. Kitum is the remnants of a petrified forest — 
I’ve been there — with hardened trees making up 
part of the rock walls. Elephants fucking go there to 
die. It’s the creepiest place I’ve seen, and I’m pretty 
sure I didn’t see it all. Something was hiding in those 
caves. Something hidden, but… tangibly strange. 
Anyway, getting back to Piotr; his specialists think 
that the Ebola they’ve found in various outbreaks 
is a poisonous by-product of something larger. Piotr 
called it ghoul bacteria, but he couldn’t be sure. 
What they found in Kitum Cave, however, is fluid 
and won’t stay locked down. They’re not sure what 
it is exactly, but they have a fair idea.
Here’s what our Russian friends think, and 
remember, I’m just the messenger. They think Dem-
demeh transcended all right, but not in the way we’d 
expect. Piotr believes he obliterated himself into 
viral form, then used his own childer as petri dishes. 
They found that protean viral sample in Kitum on 
a dying elephant. Piotr thinks the Methuselah is 
infecting the local wildlife (“riding elephants” he 
called it) and occasionally vectoring Ebola into the 
populace. This elephant graveyard shit is Demde-
meh reuniting himself with part of the whole. He’s 
becoming part of the Eldest, mark my word.


Chapter One: A Rabble of Fiends
37
With the other clan’s attentions diverted elsewhere, the 
Fiends used the diversions to launch a flurry of coups 
and assassinations to undermine the authority of adver-
sarial Cainites. During the Independence Day rioting, 
for instance, the Fiends used the night trains as mobile 
butcher shops. They traveled the length of the country, 
stopping long enough to take on new passengers, before 
murdering them en route to their destinations.
In the 20th century alone, Ratti-Ben and her progeny 
ensured that states in Northern India stayed violent and 
dissatisfied, to undermine regional Rroma rule. With the 
destruction of the ancient Rroma, however, the Fiends 
started a trend that is reversing India’s advancement. 
The Tzimisce supported the Dalits, once known as 
the untouchables, in attacking the Raj Brahman caste 
throughout this past decade as evidenced in states like 
Bihar, where the caste-strife resulted in the murder and 
massacre of entire villages. Ironically, the lower castes are 
acutely aware of the changing world around them, thanks 
to television and newspapers. Now they want more, and 
over the last two decades, they’ve been getting it. The 
Dalits can elect their own candidates into national par-
liament, and their influence grows steadily. Much to the 
dissatisfaction of the populace, however, these low-caste 
individuals are often members of organized crime. Some 
political candidates have criminal records a mile long, 
employ armed goondas thugs to protect them from assas-
sins and even use the police to off their rivals. Bribery is 
the most effective method to gain the support of a village 
chief and all the voters in his district. India’s politics suffer 
from systemic corruption, and the local Tzimisce, long 
the supporters of campaigns of terror, gained substantial 
political presence thanks to their patronage of the Dalits. 
As result, the Fiends have destabilized the holdings of 
political enemies and grow as India’s preeminent clan.
With the Ravnos gone, the Tzimisce possess un-
precedented influence and prestige in India. As result, 
many Tzimisce employ envoys to negotiate with their 
distant cousins in an effort to use India as the staging 
ground for the Sabbat’s crusade into Asia. With Kar-
tarirya in torpor, Ratti-Ben may well join the Sabbat, 
bringing many Fiends with her and giving the Sabbat 
both a nation ranked seventh as an industrial power 
and with a population of 843 million potential vessels 
— or Cainites. 
Welcome to Kali Yuga. Welcome to the Age of Kali.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
38


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
39
Chapter Two: 
Ego and  
Evolution
In these circumstances I decided that the only safe thing for me to do was go for myself. It became clear that it was pos-
sible for me to take the initiative: instead of simply reacting I could act. I could unilaterally — whether anyone agreed 
with me or not — repudiate all allegiances, morals, values — even while continuing to exist within this society. My mind 
would be free and no power in the universe could force me to accept something if I didn’t want to. But I would take my 
own sweet time. That, too, was part of my new freedom.
— Eldridge Cleaver, Soul on Ice
Methuselah:
Let me say, at first, that I resent this task. I have better things to do than play encyclopedia to senile 
corpses. Many things have happened while you were asleep, ancient one — our kind has associated itself 
with the Lasombra against the servants of Caine’s grandchilder, and the Old World is no longer our home. 
Clan means less than a family surname in these times — even the Caitiff are now a clan. With Cainites 
from every line, even a few of those licentious Tremere until a few years ago, we maintain a league of 
Cainites called the Sabbat.
I regret that I consumed the soul of my sire. Only because I am your descendant of the fullest Blood does 
this chore fall to me. I have sent Ezra to guide you in the mundane necessities: My childe will teach you how 
to hold a phone and watch a television. Ezra speaks English and Spanish, the lingua franca of the Sabbat, 
and will teach them to you. The lessons will doubtless take many years, and I have no time for such drudg-
ery. I personally honor my duties in the most limited sense: I will apprise you of the state of Clan Tzimisce. 
If this summary does not suffice… well, I do not fear your power, though it has deepened through cen-
turies. Do you know what an airplane is? Have you heard of New York City? Did you know that we hide 
from mortals now? No doubt you believe that the living mean nothing to us. The times into which you have 
awakened will prove you wrong. 
The mortals can destroy the world now, old one.
Do not waste another century on learning history — too much has happened during your 700-year slum-
ber. You must understand our world as it is now or else my lessons will be lost on you. Listen closely to Ezra, 
and keep it for as long as you wish. 
Without wasting more ink on you, on to the first lesson.
— Troilus Cressida


Clanbook: Tzimisce
40
The Nights of 
the Young
A Fiend in California Embraces and diablerizes serial 
killers, collecting their murderous souls. The regent destroyed 
a pack in Mexico City for burning down a Grimaldi estate. A 
Tzimisce sire and childe sold their souls to Hell in exchange 
for the location of a sleeping Cainite with old blood in his 
veins (perhaps this is why you have awakened, old one?). 
The clan you once knew, the clan of voivodes and koldun, is 
a dusty painting hanging in some elder’s closet. Even Cezar 
Satnoianu’s brood huddles in the alleys of the New World 
like beggars. Some Tzimisce keep the old ways, but most of 
them now squander eternity on dancing through bonfires, 
gorging themselves on ostentatious blood-rituals, and then 
going about whatever business they please, clan and sect be 
damned. They call themselves “Fiends.” 
These are your clanmates in the Final Nights.
How will you deal with these childer, old one? Even 
as mortals, they wielded power that you would consider 
miraculous. They can talk over continents — the voivode 
in Mexico City can speak to the Cardinals of the Lands 
Beyond the Forest as if they stood face to face. They have 
access to a book called the Internet, a book that allows 
modern folk to search, if not directly access, the whole of 
their accumulated knowledge. Through their public schools, 
the modern masses understand their world better than the 
wisest seneschals of your time.
And they conduct themselves in the most informal 
ways. Kings are rare in this time. The Greek’s democracy 
is the rising vogue. Corporations control economies. Their 
weapons are the province of gods. They possess things that 
will burn you, your haven and your city, old one, in one foul 
conflagration. Be careful where you take your sustenance — 
the mortals have eyes that watch the most hidden places. 
The mortals who now join you in undeath were born into 
this world; you will never learn even half the truths they 
have always assumed.
Although they are young, the modern generations 
sustain two sects larger than the undead population your 
Old World ever achieved. A charter of Traditions binds the 
Camarilla, a league that claims to speak for every Cainite 
in the world. How could a relic from our fractious past even 
conceive of that? 
Both sects contain legions — whatever laws you fol-
lowed in the Carpathians, when our numbers were small 
and every childe knew his great-grandsire, are obsolete. 
While the Sabbat lacks the strictures of the Camarilla, it 
also maintains something like loyalty among its members. 
Because of a blood-sharing ritual called the Vaulderie, 
most of your cousins are now more Sabbat than Tzimisce. 
The Mongol horde still threatens to overtake you, old 
one. They share your Blood.
In a way, these modern nights are the logical con-
sequence of our Father’s outlook. He sought to become 
something great, a being on par with the Creator perhaps 
or a being enlightened enough to be free of His rules. 
The young ones call this “ego.” Ego is Tzimisce’s ideal, 
pride as a way of being, the elevation of the one above 
the rabble. The mortals of the past few centuries have 
co-opted our ideal as their own. They have declared 
God dead. Their governments make a show of treating 
citizens like “individuals,” entitled to certain rights. It is 
not some academic subject for them, but a way of mortal 
life; still, the bounds of pride, which a Germanic doctor 
named “ego,” have been described and debated by their 
scholars for almost a century. In their new self-importance, 
these generations understand little of convention, status 
or protocol. Rude childer, blood-smeared surgeons and 
fire-dancing witches have replaced voivodes, zhupans and 
koldun. Undeath is no longer a curse or an obligation; it is 
a punishment. For the active, it is a challenge. A threat.
Although the modern generations of Tzimisce reflect 
the mortal world, they still reject it as uninspiring, mundane, 
naïve or metaphysically inferior. Humans, to most Fiends, 
are little more than food. But the progress of the mortal 
world makes more demands on the Children of Caine than 
it did when it wielded swords and feared demons. We rely 
on our breathing servants more than ever, as you shall see. 
The Facts of Unlife 
If you find any advantage to awakening in these 
vulgar times, it may be that the manners of these reck-
less childer are unsophisticated and simple to learn. As I 
suspect it was in your time, demeanor means more than 
one’s words when dealing with another Cainite. I’m sure 
you knew when to play the wolf and when to play the 
cub, old one? Still, most of the young Tzimisce, those 
not stuck in the ways of your time, rely on few formali-
ties when conducting their affairs. Those few who could 
recite their lineage do not, and no voivodes are available 
to hear oaths of fealty.
I will offer you examples of their informalities. If 
they anger you, remember that few teach our ways in this 
time. Remember that they would snuff you en masse for 
standing against them, as we did with the Eldest.
Headfirst into Undeath
Tzimisce don’t “select worthy mortals” for the Em-
brace. No such thing exists. Family name, education and 
status remain considerations, but they are no longer the 
prerequisites you remember. The Fiends pick mortals with 
the potential to become something great in undeath — to 
become a leader among their kind, tear down the Cama-
rilla or uncover a new principle of Metamorphosis. Fiends 
Embrace for the same reasons other Cainites do — com-
panionship, assistance, prestige — but most of them require 
that spark, that predestined ego. Genius isn’t enough. 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
41
To become Tzimisce, a person needs the drive to do 
something impressive. Some Fiends might have become 
presidents, inventors, artists or entrepreneurs if their lives 
weren’t cut short by the Embrace. Yes: The history of the 
world might have been very different without our kind. 
But ego expresses itself in other ways — the serial 
killer who murders 13 people to accommodate his abuse 
as a child. The pervert with the courage to indulge his 
taste for blood, despite society’s taboos. The scientist who 
creates a new disease to wipe out particular tribes in spite 
of his profession’s ethics. The atheist who writes screeds 
against the faith of others to subdue his own skepticism. 
The heroin addict who hates the world for driving him 
to the needle. Each is your grandchilde, eight genera-
tions removed.
Following the Embrace, some Tzimisce childer spend 
many years under the wings of their sires, sometimes 
their entire unlives. Traditional Fiends instruct their 
childer in every aspect of the Curse of Caine and in the 
conventions of the Sabbat and Clan Tzimisce. After the 
first few years of this wicked education, most Tzimisce 
see the concerns of their mortals lives as irrelevant 
memories and stand ready to destroy the Antediluvians 
and their Camarilla proxies. 
Tzimisce sires often number among the most objec-
tive of teachers. While some Cainites tell their childer 
exactly what they want them to know and lie about 
the rest, most Fiends prefer honesty — brutal honesty. 
Survival leaves no time to make up stories. Tzimisce 
sires quickly destroy childer who can’t deal with the 
truth or fail to realize their potential.
Exceptions — Tzimisce who come into undeath 
through mass Embraces usually learn the facts of unlife 
from their packs. And the dangers of being Sabbat — 
crusades, Fire Dancing, Monomacy — orphan many 
Tzimisce. Far too many Panders — the Caitiff clan, 
old one — can blame the Fiends for their plight, most 
of them failed experiments or luckless bastards who 
somehow survived the suicide missions for which they 
were dragged into undeath. 
Finally, the Tzimisce Embrace has a way of changing 
people. Even those Embraced haphazardly during crusades 
tend to enter unlife somewhat distorted. What is it that 
turns a mortal — an animal that uses religion and morality 
to convince itself it’s not an animal — into a blood-bathing 
demon who seeks evolution through Metamorphosis? 
Perhaps it’s a quality of the Blood, but more likely it’s the 
intensity of the Tzimisce unlifestyle — aside from the 
fact that they’re undead, having a blunt sire explain the 
war against the ancients while bonecrafting their skulls 
is enough to make most mass-Embracees want to crawl 
back into the ground. Loss of identity is an understandable 
fear, but some find it preferable to viewing unlife through 
human eyes. Regardless, even the best people can emerge 
from the experience ready to diablerize their way to Caine.
Two Handfuls of Dirt 
I have felt the soil of the Old World in my hands, 
old one. At first, it seems cold and viscous. Then you 
squeeze it between your fingers, and you realize that it 
is wet. Not wet like mud, not some weak ooze, but like 
sandy clods of red dirt that have consumed 10,000 years 
of rain. As it crumbles, you realize that your gloves are 
wet, and later, they will smell a bit rotten. The soil 
resembles our clan, old one. It is fallow. We remain at-
tached to it, though these modern Tzimisce rest most 
easily in the soil of whatever homeland they claimed as 
a mortal or a place important to their ego — the soil at 
their childhood home or the dirt of their intended grave. 
But they do not call this addiction a weakness — it 
symbolizes the Fiend’s connection to their so-called 
homeland. At least, that’s how some Tzimisce regard their 
dependence on their native soil. Does one as old as you 
recognize this curse? Without at least two handfuls of dirt 
from a place important to them as a mortal, Tzimisce grow 
weaker until they spend a full night surrounded by their 
precious soil once more. Wise Tzimisce keep much more 
than two handfuls around. Some don’t feel safe unless 
they have a dozen crates of the stuff hidden all over town.
Perhaps you could answer a question for me, Me-
thuselah: Are the Tzimisce territorial because their 
weakness complicates migration, or is it a punishment 
for their possessiveness? Noddists cite myths in which 
Caine curses the entire line for the feudal outlook of its 
founder. Koldun believe the weakness is a debt to the 
land-spirits of their native domains, whose power af-
fects all that falls under the shadow of the Carpathians. 
Few truths arise where myths and spirits are concerned. 
Some Tzimisce have it worse than others. A very small 
number, born continents away from Eastern Europe, actu-
ally need dirt from the soured lands of their ancestors. In 
the modern nights, few Tzimisce realize what such childer 
require and destroy them for their apparent weakness. Those 
sires who know the old secrets of their clan or discover the 
truth in time to help a fading childe actually revere their 
progeny for their special connection to the Old World. Can 
you imagine, a Tzimisce sire serving his childe? With the 
modern reemergence of Koldunic Sorcery, ancient koldun 
often seek out these young Cainites in order to teach them 
the ways of their art. They keep plenty of Old Country 
soil on hand to entice potential apprentices. 
Blood, Our Jailer
According to our own legends, the Eldest was the 
first Cainite to discover the blood bond. In some versions 
(in which the Crone is conspicuously absent), Caine 
himself is ignorant of the power of his own Blood until 
his grandchilde teaches him its use. Whether this is truth 
or propaganda, throughout history, some Tzimisce have 
considered themselves masters of the blood bond, with 
the revenants and ghouls to support those claims.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
42
That our clan was responsible for the greatest innova-
tion in the use of blood bonds is more than a myth. When 
the young Tzimisce of the Old World rose up against their 
elders, packs of rebellious childer sometimes pooled their 
blood into a bowl liberated from a wealthy voivode or the 
skull of a fallen elder. Each member of the pack drank from 
the container as a sign of solidarity. Packs that engaged in 
this practice displayed decidedly unvampiric tendencies: 
loyalty to their fellows and even willingness to sacrifice their 
unlives for their brothers. When combined with koldunic 
magics in a ritual that foreshadowed the Sabbat Vaulderie, 
these packs destroyed their blood bonds to their sires and 
proved immune to attempts to restore it.
Even before the Anarch Revolt, Tzimisce with ad-
vanced understandings of the Paths of Enlightenment 
could cause those enthralled by their blood to experience 
particular emotions or desires. These Tzimisce understood 
how to subdue their Beasts to such a degree that they could 
sometimes master the base impulses of their thralls as well. 
Most regnants have little say in how the thrall 
expresses the mockery of love instilled by the blood 
bond. Those of our kind who knew how to influence 
the bond, however, could make their thralls feel vio-
lently jealous, obsequious, reverent or even fearful. In 
the Final Nights, a few Tzimisce sufficiently stalwart in 
their Path of Enlightenment can create the same effect. 
Perhaps I want something from you after all, old one.
Never Eat Your Own
Many Tzimisce refuse to diablerize members of their 
own clan, if they indulge in the Amaranth at all. This 
perplexes other Sabbat, who widely regard diablerie as 
a vehicle to power. It could not be, they say, that the 
clan has such internal loyalty. 
When questioned, some Tzimisce relate the story 
of Luther Wexler, a diablerist who met an unenviable 
Final Death. A year after Wexler consumed the soul of 
his sire, he bragged about the destruction of his sire to 
his pack while they shared blood. Before the bowl made 
its way back to the pack priest on the other side of the 
fire, Wexler and all the packmates who had tasted his 
blood stood up at once. Their eyes widened like those of 
frightened animals. Bloody specters climbed out of their 
mouths and sloughed off their skins, which fell away in 
neat puddles like dropped robes. The specters met in 
the fire and became flesh, then ran off into the night.
The survivor who spread the account was supposedly a 
fledgling who had yet to partake of the Vaulderie with her 
new pack. The rest of the Sabbat remains unconvinced.
The Tzimisce distaste for diablerie might be attrib-
uted to several factors. Traditional Tzimisce sires often 
warn their childer that when they drink a Cainite dry, 
they also drink her soul. Strong souls can linger after the 
Final Death, and some want a say in how their potent 
blood is used. Some Metamorphosists fear that such an 
arrangement might lead them astray from Azhi Dahaka. 
Tzimisce who eschew Vicissitude almost never diablerize 
Cainites with the disease for fear of contamination. Other 
Tzimisce, protective of their egos, recoil at the thought 
of another entity dwelling inside them, influencing their 
thoughts. Fetishes aside, most Tzimisce prefer remaining 
a weaker but self-made Cainite to becoming someone’s 
mighty puppet. The fact that mass-Embraced Fiends who 
lack the knowledge of our clan’s values and diablerie’s 
true nature don’t share their brothers’ compunctions 
lends credence to this theory. 
This is not to say that Tzimisce never practice 
diablerie. Some accept the teachings of their sires but 
attempt to avoid complications by destroying all sources 
of their intended victim’s self-worth; when they finally 
diablerize the victim, his soul is broken and longs for 
obliterating quiet. Others actually relish the idea of 
becoming eternal prisons for the souls of their enemies. 
Some accept the risks, hoping the power is worth the 
price. Few of the youngest Tzimisce, which is to say 
much of the Sabbat, see any danger in diablerie.
Optional Rule: 
Flavoring Blood Bonds
If a Tzimisce attains a Path rating of 8 or more, 
the Fiend can manipulate his blood bonds to instill 
particular desires or emotions within his thralls. At 
the time of the third sip, the Tzimisce must have 
a specific quality in mind, but the quality seldom 
manifests unless the circumstances of the relation-
ship, and perhaps the blood sharing itself, could 
logically result in the intended dynamic. A ghoul 
who’s been locked in the dungeon of a domitor who 
never leaves his lab, for example, probably can’t be 
made to feel especially jealous. 
If the situation allows, roll the regnant’s Path rat-
ing (difficulty equal to the thrall’s Willpower). The 
number of successes indicates how fully the thrall’s 
bond has the quality desired by the regnant. One 
success indicates a vague feeling that occasionally 
influences the thrall. With five successes, the quality 
is the defining element of the thrall’s relationship 
with his regnant. This context lasts until the bond 
lapses or the regnant instills a new emotion. On a 
botch, the regnant assumes the emotions meant 
for the thrall.
Although most Fiends who possess this abil-
ity consider it a power unique to Tzimisce blood, 
Cainites who have diablerized a Tzimisce or even 
shared a significant quantity of blood with a Fiend 
could conceivably develop this control over their 
thralls, at the Storyteller’s discretion. 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
43
Loyalties of 
the Clan
If not for your torpid absence from the world, I have 
little doubt that you would have been destroyed during 
the Anarch Revolt. Those as old as you cling to the past, 
and judging from your descendants, I suspect that you 
would have preferred Final Death to equality with your 
childer. Still, your slumber has saved you, and wisely, you 
have accepted the clan’s new loyalties, though I doubt 
you understand them. Blood such is yours is too valuable 
to our cause, even if it slushes through the veins of a 
creature that cannot turn on a computer or read a clock. 
The Soul of the Sabbat?
“If Clan Lasombra is the heart of the Sabbat, Clan 
Tzimisce is the soul.” Sabbat members resort to this 
trope so often that I would not be surprised to learn that 
they were the first words you heard upon awakening. 
Do these often-repeated words actually mean anything? 
To dissect this metaphor: Clan Lasombra lends the 
necessary hierarchy to the sect. It’s the “heart” because 
without it, the body, the sect, could not function. In 
this way, the Lasombra live up to their self-proclaimed 
role as their “brother’s keepers.”
But even if the Lasombra literally keep the blood flow-
ing, the Tzimisce make continued existence worthwhile. 
We’re the “soul” because we attend to the higher spiritual 
and intellectual demands of that continued existence. 
The Lasombra keep the Sabbat alive, and we tell the sect 
what it should do with that vigor. If the Lasombra tend 
to be ducti, cardinals and archbishops, Tzimisce tend to 
be prisci, pack priests and members of the consistory, the 
group that advises the regent. 
But the difference isn’t that practical. The “soul” is 
just as necessary to the functioning of the body, or sect, 
but in a way that’s less concrete. The Tzimisce have 
accomplished much in their spiritual role.
The Packs: The Sabbat organizes itself into small 
packs united by the Vaulderie, a blood-sharing ritual that 
bonds packmates to one another. When they rebelled 
against their elders, Tzimisce formed the first crude packs 
and invented the process that later became the Vaulderie. 
The pack structure is responsible for whatever unity the 
sect enjoys despite their lack of laws or common heri-
tage. And Cainites are nocturnal predators unnaturally 
suited to isolation. That we have cobbled a semblance of 
society among such creatures ranks among the greatest 
accomplishments of the children of Tzimisce.
The Paths of Enlightenment: It’s easy to think of 
the Paths as abstract moralities, but they serve a very 
practical function: preventing Cainites from succumb-


Clanbook: Tzimisce
44
ing to their Beasts. Back when even Cainites looked to 
Heaven or Hell to preserve their souls (to which did you 
look, old one?), a few Tzimisce sought Metamorphosis. 
Individuals who made a point of transcending their for-
mer humanity had to develop ways to stifle their Beasts 
while still becoming inhuman. Those who didn’t turn 
to Metamorphosis borrowed philosophies developed by 
other Cainites and turned them into full-blown Paths of 
Enlightenment. While most Sabbat wallow in the worst 
of their former humanitas, we have developed more useful 
approaches to undeath for the enlightened few. Without 
the moral instruction of the Tzimisce, the entire Sabbat 
would be a slavering, monstrous horde. More so, anyway. 
The Ritae: Many of the Sabbat’s ritae have their origins 
in Tzimisce practices. A ceremony that was used in your 
nights of relevance to confirm new voivodes, for instance, 
inspired what is now the Blood Bath. When a new voivode 
annexed a demesne, those of or dependent upon the Blood 
who existed in that region — Cainites, revenants and pre-
sentable ghouls — attended a coronation. The new lord sat 
before a large bowl, and each of his subjects approached him, 
attested that he was the undisputed ruler, then filled the 
bowl with as much of her own blood as she could without 
losing consciousness or self-control. 
After all of his subjects made their contribution, the 
new voivode held up the bowl and issued a warning to those 
who would question his power. Mirroring an even older 
pagan ritual, when the new voivode reached the violent peak 
of his ceremonial threat, he threw the bowl into the air, 
drenching his assembled servants in the collected blood — a 
demonstration of what would happen if they defied his rule.
When the Tzimisce adapted this ritual for use within 
the Sabbat, they reversed its intent and mocked the origi-
nal. When a new Cainite fills a high position within the 
Sabbat — cardinal, archbishop or regent, perhaps — she 
bathes in the collected blood. If the original splashing 
represented the price of insurrection, the Sabbat’s Blood 
Bath represents the assumption of responsibility for poor 
leadership. The ruled threaten the ruler. Although the as-
sembled still swear their loyalty in the modern nights, they 
receive praise and advice from the newly titled vampire 
rather than swearing never to question her leadership. 
The Sabbat has surely profited from our hand-me-
downs. The ritae (despite the bastard Latin preserved by 
ignorant Lasombra and young Tzimisce’s lazy tongues) 
provide unity within the sect, maintain morale and allow 
Cainites to experience fully what undeath has to offer in 
spite of its curse.
The Tzimisce Hierarchy
Although the modern incarnation of the clan de-
fined itself in the rebellious fires of Kupala’s Night, we 
Tzimisce hardly discarded our right to rule, even if the 
word means something different in the context of the 
Final Nights. My generation didn’t object to the elder’s 
power on principle, as some vainglorious Brujah do. We 
objected because we didn’t hold power ourselves. As such, 
the clan resurrected on Kupala’s Night (if not all of its 
members) still acknowledges the hierarchy of the Sabbat 
and retains a semblance of its former organization as well.
The Voivode of the clan is traditionally the most 
powerful active Tzimisce in the world. This was the role of 
the Ancient itself — in the first nights, its authority was 
unquestionable. When Tzimisce fell into torpor, Yorak 
assumed the position of Voivode. He set the standard that 
all succeeding Voivodes must meet. In the modern nights, 
this standard is interpreted as an advanced understanding 
of both Koldunic Sorcery and a Path of Enlightenment… 
and the unreserved endorsement of the clan elders. 
Why would our clan’s figurehead rely on such esoteric 
principles? Perhaps you can answer this better than I, old 
one. Few Cainites follow the Paths of Enlightenment, and 
koldunism is almost unheard of outside our lineage — why 
then do we demand such unconventional prerequisites?
If they are not some lingering dictate of the Eldest, 
then I am inclined to blame history. I have heard that 
Yorak was a koldun, perhaps the first koldun. It could be 
that he knew his art would dwindle as the world aged and 
established a precedent that our clan would need in the 
Final Nights. Then again, it could be that other Voivodes 
merely seek to prove to their followers that they are like 
the venerable Yorak. Despite what the medieval Metamor-
phosist texts record, I doubt that the Tzimisce profited so 
greatly under his guidance. His rule was long past even 
before the European Dark Ages. Only an ancient creature 
like yourself could give us a more accurate account.…
As for the requirement that a candidate follow a 
Path, my own theory is that it was added after a technical 
disagreement among the Tzimisce elders who must sup-
port any aspirant. You may have heard the name Sascha 
Vykos — did news of the Tremere-Tzimisce conflict reach 
the mountains under which you hid? Even before your 
700-year leave, Sascha worked against the Antediluvians; 
the siege of Atlanta was its latest contribution — or was it 
Washington, DC? In any event, it told me that advanced 
understanding of a Path became a precedent after a dispute 
among some elders about whether the previous Voivode 
was fully in control of his Beast. Many Tzimisce from the 
Old World regarded frenzy as base, uncouth, animal-like. 
Elders from the Old World saw the New World “elders’” 
support of this ravenous Voivode as proof that the New 
World could not pick a worthy Voivode. Although perhaps 
only five Cainites were involved in the dispute, those 
few were the eldest of Mexico City, a cabal that can still 
blackball any potential Voivode, even if they can no lon-
ger seat one on their own. The preference for a Voivode 
to follow a Path of Enlightenment was proposed by the 
New World contingent — an effort to correct their earlier 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
45
mistake and complicate the Old World’s argument against 
them. As Sascha says, it was a way to prove that a future 
candidate was master of his Beast, proof against the Old 
World Tzimisce’s accusation that the New World elders 
were appointing another rabid dog to the post. 
Adopting a Path requires the will and rigor to oppose 
your baser urges. It is, therefore, a rare act for a Cainite. Then, 
as now, most Tzimisce want a Voivode who is disciplined…
…and obscure. In the Final Nights, most Tzimisce 
regard their Voivode like lapsed Catholics might regard the 
Pope — they get furious if they hear him insulted, but they 
don’t exactly agree that he’s infallible. The current Voivode 
may be the last. Her name is little known within the clan, 
almost unheard of within the larger sect. Her voice does 
not carry beyond Mexico City. And she is ignorant of 
koldunism. If the Ancient still exists, it is surely dissatisfied.
No doubt this news distresses you. At least the zhupans 
still exist — they bear the duties once expected of our 
titular leader, maybe because their status is earned rather 
than ordained. These are the wisest (not necessarily oldest) 
members of the clan — in the Final Nights, they remain 
the most conversant in the lore of the Tzimisce. Their 
knowledge, as well as their prowess in battle, proves they 
deserve their title — before a Fiend can be considered a 
zhupan, he must first master the zulo form. At least one of 
the ancient ways still endures, Methuselah.
Some Tzimisce still claim the title of voivode, though 
the ritual of formal recognition no longer exists. These 
voivodes, not to be confused with the Voivode of the en-
tire clan, appoint themselves and enforce their claims as 
best they can. They fulfill an obsolete function that was 
the heart of the Tzimisce feudal ideal — oversight of a 
demesne, or domain. 
Most Tzimisce who claim the title enforce domain 
over a particular stock of mortals, usually a neighborhood 
or small city. The voivode of Athens, Georgia (surely a 
laughable title to the Old World Fiends) claimed domain 
as the only Cainite who makes his haven in that town after 
the siege of Atlanta. The voivode of Miami can enforce his 
claim only in Little Havana. 
Factions Among Fiends
Not every childe of Tzimisce aligns himself with 
some faction, the Sabbat included. Aside from dozens 
of packs, Metamorphosist schools and Gehenna cults, 
the Tzimisce have also organized themselves into several 
large factions within our clan.
The Old Clan 
Does this branch of the clan cling to the oldest ways of 
the Tzimisce, or are they something akin to puritan radi-
cals? Accounts conflict, but at some point in the ancient 
past, a segment of the clan either refused or denounced 
the “defilement” of Vicissitude. Some members of the Old 
Clan are exceedingly ancient — perhaps they know some 
lore of which the rest of the clan is ignorant. Scholars 
have contrived all manner of unlikely theories to explain 
why these “Old World” or “Old Clan” Tzimisce reject 
the fleshcrafting arts, but the Fiends in question aren’t 
talking. In fact, they’d prefer never to talk to their clan at 
all, but holding their noses and joining the Sabbat seems 
preferable to fending off the fangs of our hungry cousins. 
As the name applied to their branch of the clan im-
plies, many of the Old Clan Tzimisce maintain demesnes 
in Eastern Europe and continue to manage their holdings 
in the medieval fashion (if less openly). The Cardinals 
of the Land Beyond the Forest hesitate to make many 
demands on this uneasy relationship, but the Sabbat 
can rely on occasional assistance from the Old Clan, 
particularly in Romania — that is what the world now 
calls your homeland, old one.
Old Clan Tzimisce have mastered Caine’s gift of 
mental domination in place of Vicissitude. They consider 
themselves to be the clan’s aristocracy, a family that still 
conducts its affairs in the ancient Tzimisce way. Their 
witches still know the most obscure ways of koldunism. 
The Old Clan still practices the ceremonies of coronation 
and rites-of-passage for childer. The ritae are abhorrent to 
them. Perhaps you would find more identifiable company 
among their ranks, old one. 
Children of the Dracon
The Children of the Dracon trace their roots to 
Constantinople, though Noddist scholars disagree on 
whether this history is genuine or was later co-opted to 
lend credence to the group. Members of the Children, 
also called “Dracons,” claim to be descendants of the first 
childe of Tzimisce. 
This knightly order of Fiends exists so that Clan 
Tzimisce may atone for its sins. Dracon’s Children believe 
that the clan as a whole committed some grievous error at 
a critical point in its history. The Dracons reject Koldunic 
Sorcery — maybe Kupala’s Night was the error in ques-
tion. If so, why did they join the Sabbat? Perhaps because 
their founder instructed them not to abandon their clan. 
Instead, they now oppose almost every decision made by 
the clan Voivode or enacted by several influential elders, 
seemingly for the sole purpose of being contrary, but this 
seems unlikely. They voice this opposition through their 
continued involvement in the Sabbat. The Children of 
the Dracon produce legions of templars and claim a few 
European bishoprics. They are excluded from the Black 
Hand, however, and no Dracon has ever served as the 
Voivode of Clan Tzimisce.
The rather arbitrary opposition to any policy endorsed 
by the clan troubles many Tzimisce because the Children’s 
motivations are not entirely clear. One rather ancient 
Metamorphosist suggests that evolution is a response to 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
46
a threat — perhaps the Children spur the entire clan’s 
advancement by providing the requisite resistance. An-
other popular theory is that this perpetual opposition is a 
punishment for the clan’s great mistake. Sascha Vykos, a 
former resident of Constantinople, will tell me only that 
“Dracon is dead to me. His so-called Children make a 
mockery of their purloined heritage.”
The Children of the Dracon organize themselves 
much like a monastic order, with “scions” establishing 
monasteries made up primarily of their own broods. 
The monasteries coordinate their activities through 
the Hagia Sophia, a Dracon Vatican of sorts somewhere 
around the Mediterranean. The scholarly wing of this 
order, the Akoimetai, is drawn almost exclusively from a 
branch of the Obertus revenant family, though this family 
produces some knights as well. Tzimisce not descended 
from a scion are rarely allowed to join, and even those 
who do are referred to as “carrion” and never granted 
full understanding of the meaning of the 12 legacies that 
this sect-within-a-sect abides. Children of the Dracon 
also tolerate the existence of thin-blooded Cainites 
within their ranks, a trend that disgusts conservative 
elements within the clan. 
Before the Embrace, the Children leave the monas-
tery to study the “12 legacies” — precepts of the order 
— with various enclaves across the globe. Then, they 
return to their monastery of origin to be Embraced. If 
the initiate is an Akoimetai, he is entrusted with one 
volume from the Library of the Forgotten. If a knight, he 
is charged to carry a letter in an envelope he is forbid-
den to open, sealed with the mark of Dracon himself, 
to some other Fiend elsewhere in the world. Confirmed 
in the order, the new Child of the Dracon departs to 
establish himself within Sabbat society. 
In the modern nights, the haven of the scion is 
the “monastery” for any given cell, and no one but the 
scion and perhaps a member of the Akoimetai makes 
their permanent haven there. The Children prefer that 
their ranks remain involved with the sect rather than 
cloistering themselves. Some Dracons aspire to follow 
the Path of Metamorphosis or the Path of Honorable 
Accord, though elder members and a few young prodigies 
claim to follow a different Path unknown to the Sabbat 
at large. The Akoimetai observe a variety of ignoblis ritae, 
but most Children refuse to take part in any ritae they 
believe to be derived from koldunic practices. 
Prominent Children are sometimes granted unique 
titles and serve specific functions within the order. Some 
educated Tzimisce may recognize the titles Keeper of 
the Faith and the Gesudian, though more obscure titles 
exist as well. My own knowledge fails here, as well; I 
have no idea what duties or benefits the Keeper of the 
Faith or the Gesudian perform or enjoy.
The Romanian Legacy Foundation
You may recognize some of the names on this 
foundations’ board of trustees: Bratovitch, Obertus, 
Grimaldi, Zantosa. The last you know, though you 
might not immediately recognize it — a corruption of 
the name Szantovich.
These names represent the four remaining revenant 
families of any size. During your slumber, they came to 
serve the Sabbat. I will explain this later. For now, it is 
enough to know that our clan still draws many neonates 
from the ranks of these four families. 
The Romanian Legacy Foundation is composed of 
Cainites who sprang from our revenant houses. Although 
the board of trustees is composed of proven ancillae, the 
foundation is made up mostly of young Tzimisce. Those who 
still draw childer from the revenant houses rarely welcome 
their chosen to undeath with a shovel in the face. The Ro-
manian Legacy Foundation gives these new children a more 
cultured introduction to undeath. Foundation members from 
all over the world fly to cities like Boston, Rio de Janeiro, 
Amsterdam or Oradea for “conventions.” These conven-
tions are actually rites of welcome for these Cainites-to-be. 
Fifty or so members meet at the haven of the host, or 
at a revenant estate, and engage in the bloodiest of Sab-
bat bacchanalia. Mortals hang from the ceiling, dripping 
blood into enormous urns that are later overturned at the 
tops of stairways, the host’s demonstration that blood is 
available in abundance. The blood is usually consumed 
before the stroke of midnight. Relatives who haven’t seen 
each other since the last convention share the Vaulderie. 
No entertainment is excluded, if it strikes the host’s fancy. 
Even if no revenants are inducted through the founda-
tion one year, various members host at least two or three 
such gatherings to maintain ties with the organization.
Just before morning, the new childer are Embraced 
while they are drunk, exhausted and, quite likely, weak from 
loss of blood. If they do not leave with their sires the next 
night, the fledglings are assigned to a sponsor, a member 
of the foundation who’s probably no more than a few years 
dead herself. Because the fledglings are of revenant blood, 
they probably understand quite a bit more about undeath 
than their once-mortal peers. If they are to be instructed 
by a neonate, only a former revenant will do. 
Although these sponsors can teach their students 
how to deal with the undead condition, they give their 
charges something far more valuable: an introduction to 
the society of the Damned. Sponsors show their charges 
around the city, introducing them to their fellow Tzimisce 
and perhaps other members of the Sabbat as well. The 
sponsors show their students the best areas to feed and 
the locations where significant ritae take place. The new 
Cainites receive the welcome to undeath that a worthy 
revenant should strive to earn. 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
47
Why does this family affair require such a misleading 
name? The foundation requires a degree of publicity, 
since another of their purposes is to locate branches of 
their families or of the families that supposedly vanished 
or no longer serve the Tzimisce. The name is for the 
sake of America’s tax collectors, to whom the foundation 
represents itself as a “nonprofit genealogical organiza-
tion.” Mortals who see their classified advertisements 
for “conventions” or find the right page in the book of 
the Internet can petition for membership. They must 
submit their family trees to be considered. The scholars 
affiliated with the foundation scour these submissions 
for any relatives to our revenant families. 
Somewhere, a child bearing an Anglicized name 
grows with our blood coursing through her veins. Her 
blood may be too watery for her to be considered a 
revenant, or maybe not. Regardless, the Tzimisce blood 
within her no doubt makes her an exceptional mortal. If 
she is like most of the cousins located by the foundation, 
she is emotionally disturbed in some way, given to fits of 
depression or indulging in the torture of cats, perhaps. 
Despite her haunted life, she could grow up to be a bold 
leader, a fiery priest or an ingenious scholar like many 
of our distant relatives. If the foundation locates her in 
time, she may be fit to receive the Embrace rather than 
die as an exceedingly old and talented mortal.
The majority of revenants brought into undeath aren’t 
associated with the Romanian Legacy Foundation. Still, 
some of our clanmates see the organization as a way to 
maintain our old traditions, even though our revenant 
aristocracy is spread so thinly across the world. Even 
revenants who weren’t inducted into the foundation at 
their creation can join, provided they survive the reme-
dial initiation rite, about which the less said, the better.
Neofeudalists
More a sensibility than a movement, the neofeudalists 
are those Tzimisce who seek a return to the nights when 
the we ruled kine as kings ruled serfs. They often claim 
vast tracts of domain, sire large broods of childer and 
defend their possessions with a territorial fury that would 
do their Ancient proud. For neofeudalists, relying on their 
own resources rather than the Sabbat’s is a point of honor, 
especially since they find themselves at odds with their own 
sect as often as they do the Camarilla. Some Fiends regard 
neofeudalists as anachronisms. Others see them almost like 
folk heroes reclaiming some lost native pride. Most arch-
bishops, however, would prefer Lupines infesting their cities 
to having a neofeudalist move in next door. Few survive 
in the Final Nights, and fewer still survive for very long. 
Exsanguinists
A blood cult exists within Clan Tzimisce. Unlike most 
such cults, awash in oceans of vitae, the Exsanguinists 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
48
have invented a dozen or so ignoblis ritae to avoid drinking 
blood for as long as possible. They consider feeding the 
act of an animal, not a deathless being on the threshold 
of something greater. 
Thought to be an offshoot of a school of Metamorpho-
sis, the Exsanguinist cult teaches methods of meditation 
meant to build up their endurance as they go for increasingly 
longer times between feedings. They seek to distract them-
selves from their hunger by any means, usually by leaping 
headlong into whatever Sabbat cause strikes their fancy. 
Some proselytize, but most Sabbat are too bloodthirsty for 
the ascetic existence. 
Exsanguinists perpetually skirt the edge of ravenous 
frenzy. They’re given to making wild, fanatical declarations 
about the nature of undeath and reacting extremely to 
changing circumstances. Upon the capture of a Camarilla 
infiltrator within the city, one Exsanguinist bishop in Tijuana 
declared that Central America would fall within the hour, 
set his robes on fire and consumed the spy and himself in a 
flaming embrace to emphasize the dire nature of the predica-
ment. While a few Exsanguinists are placid buddhas, most 
are lip-biters ready to frenzy at the slightest provocation. 
Tzimisce Antitribu
Those Cainites who have broken with their parent clan, 
especially those whose cousins have joined the Camarilla, 
fancy themselves antitribu and refer to themselves as such. 
Tzimisce have no need for such vanity. Since your time, 
most Tzimisce have regarded their clan as an unlifestyle, 
rather than a family to appease. Tzimisce have a reputation 
as ruthless, inhuman deviants because some aspire to be just 
that, not because we bear some affiliation with our brothers. 
As such, more of the clan exists independent of the Sabbat 
than we like to admit. Some rule demesnes and acknowledge 
no authority but their own. Groups of Tzimisce descended 
from one ancestor, like the ever-shrinking Oradea League, 
associate only with the same few relatives. Most, like the 
Old Clan, give lip service to the Sabbat and go about their 
business without regard to sect. 
Even though many Fiends are independent, few asso-
ciate with the Camarilla. While most of us are ultimately 
beholden to our dwindling humanity, the sect’s emphasis 
on humanitas does not suit us. Truth be told, old one, most 
Cainites are too proud to acknowledge that we hide from 
mortals, abuse their institutions in the gentlest ways and do 
not harm our fellows lest our cities become disorderly. Every 
Cainite must do these things to survive for long, but most 
Tzimisce would be embarrassed to admit it. I would have it 
no other way, ancestor — why prattle on about weaknesses 
when immortality is at hand? 
Prejudices of the Twice-Dead
You missed generations of descendants in your slum-
ber, old one. My sire for instance — he was an anachronism 
much like yourself, though even he understood enough to 
fear the power of men. He was an impatient, bitter corpse 
who saw the Jyhad in everything, much as I’m sure you 
do now that you’ve reawakened to this alien time. His 
paranoia led him to be an impatient Cainite. Now that 
it is time to discuss the other lineages of Caine, I quote 
from my fondest remembrances of my twice-dead father 
— his rants — rendered as best I can remember them.
Assamites
Do not speak to me of the Assassins! I despise them 
and their filthy paynim ways! Oh, how they fright my 
heart with their lethiferous stares! Are they Cainites at 
all? The Children of Assam have more in common with 
the soulless dead of the Orient, I say, and their nature 
convinces me that the Black Hand will betray our Great 
Effort. Why suffer them at all? If some unpleasantness 
demands expendables, do the Lasombra not suffice? 
And when they enter a home, they forget to wipe 
their feet. Perhaps you are an Assamite, childe?
Brujah
After dealing with them — a labor regretfully neces-
sary given the prominence they attained since the Third 
Civil War — I am inspired to sponsor missionaries to their 
wastelands, to teach them that immortality is more than 
dancing in filth and feeding indiscriminately. The Beast 
rules them utterly. A clan in need of discipline, these 
Brutes. It must reassure them to reinvent their mighty 
domains of old in every urban wasteland to pollute. 
Serpents of the Light
Despite our nature, we must be honest with one 
another: Tzimisce is a clan of rarefied tastes. Passions 
such as we know are only available in a seller’s market. I 
know that you are not religious. Then hie to your Path, 
and eschew their seductions! 
At the Palla Grande, I am often disposed to lecture the 
young. I implore them to feed often, forbid their ghouls 
to touch their dinners and never believe the Serpents of 
the Light are any different from the bastard line which 
spawned them! Their ultimate ambition is everything 
the Sword of Caine would prevent. Can we chance that 
the Cobras are sincere in their devotion to the cause?
Gangrel
Did you know these dogs come in two breeds? What 
new face will Caine’s curse show us next? Ah, but you 
flatter me. No, I cannot claim the credit for this bifurca-
tion — that belongs to another of our line. But you asked 
me what I think of them, and the answer is “little.” 
Yet, I would suffer a Hunter willing to teach the 
rudiments of his earthy gifts.
Harbingers of Skulls
I have met only one, and at first, she seemed de-
lightful company. Very knowledgeable about our kind. 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
49
I advise you to seek one out in all haste. You are inex-
perienced with them? Well, do not make my mistake 
— when supping with a Lazarene, never offer to repair 
her visage. That faux pas has depleted my kennels and 
lead to some unfortunate complications in the conduct 
of my ritae. I fear I shall never lead another Vaulderie. 
Lasombra
Was it not the Tzimisce who built the Sabbat? Did we 
not bring our elders low? Did we not shatter the blood bond? 
Who, do you think, conceived the packs? Why, we even 
gave freely of our sorcery that any True Sabbat might know 
the ritae! And from the shadows, they stole the throne on 
which we should rightfully sit. Yes, it’s true they vanquished 
their Ancient first, but damn it, we showed them how—
Well, no, I can’t say they’ve done a horrible job, 
merely an inadequate one. But we are a clan of lords. 
Why, then, are we content to play advisors? It is for 
me a most unpleasant rumination, and I would rather 
focus on my experiments. Their domination frees us to 
pursue our curiosities, after all. 
Malkavians
The Malkavians were the architects of the Tower of 
Babel, I believe. They built an edifice that revealed the 
world from on high, as Heaven sees it. But the kine-god, 
ever jealous of the Children of Caine and their power 
to exist without Him, destroyed the tower and garbled 
the tongues of its creators. The Malkavians have seen 
Heaven, but they cannot describe it to others. Each 
speaks his own language, which we call madness. 
 Nosferatu
My skin seems to have come off in the bath. Could 
you fetch my robe? Yes, the Nosferatu would be jealous of 
me indeed. Sadly, there is no helping the poor creatures. 
I would cure them were I able, but their curse proves 
so tenacious. Perhaps it comes from Tzimisce itself, so 
old and powerful is its nature.
How could it be that they joined the Camarilla at 
all? Surely, their cause is ours as well. When the most 
ancient creatures of their line resurface, I have little 
doubt that they will flock to the Sabbat like rats escap-
ing a flood. I have an unerring intuition of such things. 
Panders
Oh, I see their use, but something within me sickens 
at the tolerance they now enjoy. Would a mortal mother 
allow a child to live if it were simple or deformed? Of 
what use would it be? In older nights, we treated the 
misbegotten with that same objectivity. Now we call 
them “Panders” and recognize them as a clan. I do not 
understand these sentimental times.
Did you know that one is now bishop of some city 
in the New World? Gehenna draws nigh indeed. 
Ravnos
A shame, really. Too much has been made of the 
antagonism between our clans. I think of them fondly, 
myself. Yes, they are renowned as rude guests, but they 
aren’t stupid. Our power was once so great that even the 
Gypsies asked permission to pass through our lands, and 
the villagers were too busy running them out of town 
to rally mobs against us. A pity they are so far spread 
now — imagine altering your surroundings to match 
the alterations you’ve made in yourself!
Salubri
They despise the Usurpers, and that is enough. I 
will offer them any aid I can. 
Toreador
I would set myself ablaze if I knew that one of these 
errant children would nurse me back to health. If the 
Vaulderie did not prevent it, I would bind myself to one 
of the antitribu, for they are exceedingly good at certain 
acts I’d like to experience regularly. After my visit to 
Montreal last winter, you cannot convince me that the 
Toreador do not seek their own form of Metamorphosis. 
Tremere
The strongest clan of the modern nights — proof of 
the utter depravity of our times if ever I saw it! Thieves! 
Usurpers! They are so strong only because our blood 
colors their veins! Seeing their preeminence, do you 
wonder why the Tzimisce feel as though they’ve been 
robbed? Do not suffer a witch to live!
Ventrue
Were we in charge of their ostentatious league of 
“Kindred,” our subjects would praise us as worthy leaders, 
not share our table and whisper curses when we turn our 
backs! They understand the duller portion of governance, 
and I would have one as my seneschal, but they weary me 
with their “consumptive choices” and “considered political 
judgments.” Fetch a bucket! The blood within me rises!
A final gem for your edification, old one:
The Lupines
I have undertaken quite an extensive study of the 
shapeshifters. Their classification proved difficult, since 
they breed like Brujah sire. We have, however, isolated 
several species: The North American Glassgnawer clan, 
for instance, is known to populate the cities, but their 
offspring invariably begin life deformed. Such cubs are uni-
versally infertile. How do they propagate? It is a mystery. 
The Black-Star Walkers, kin to the Shadowed Lord 
clan that harried us in the Carpathians, mate with no such 
complication, arising as they do from packs of ordinary 
wolves. A colleague believes that an offshoot of their line, 
one indigenous to the Scandinavia, worships the trickster 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
50
god Loki. I reject this theory, for I find it inconceivable 
that such beasts practice anything resembling a religion. 
Paths of 
Enlightenment
In these modern nights, old one, most Cainites don’t 
survive undeath for more than a decade. They have little 
time to learn anything of importance. These reckless, 
unlucky youth earn no understanding of our state — too 
many fall to their Beasts within nights of their creation. 
Among the few who survive, and the fewer still who 
come to understand something of the Curse of Caine, the 
most determined follow tenets based on understandings 
of undeath that they claim checks their Beasts.
Do you remember the Metamorphosists? They are 
the clearest example that’s within your arthritic grasp. 
They seek to undergo some transformation that dwarfs 
even the change from mortal to Cainite. Their methods 
spread like curses among black magicians. Masters teach 
students, childer imitate sires, zealots preach to any 
who would listen, and the curious always find a way to 
learn. Some believed the Metamorphosists were pos-
sessed, mad or foolish. Some feared their intimidating 
forms. But my sire’s sire, your great-grandchilde Conrad 
Bukouskei, once told me that their numbers were small. 
Few Tzimisce had the discipline to seek Azhi Dahaka. 
Such things change slowly, but Metamorphosis is not 
the only Path walked by our kind. Others see enlighten-
ment in the eyes of a fresh corpse or in the catholic pursuit 
of Caine. Some drown their Beasts in dutiful supplication, 
like the knights of your time. A few succumb to heresies 
like soul-pacts with the Devil or the emulation of Lilith. 
The Path of Metamorphosis 
How best to explain the modern Path to someone 
who’s never read Darwin…? Those who follow the Path 
of Metamorphosis seek to climb closer to Heaven and far-
ther from humanity, though few of them believe in such a 
place. Unlike the Eastern Buddhists imitating Siddhartha, 
Metamorphosists have few role models in search of Azhi 
Dahaka, the name given to this higher state by the eldest of 
Fiends. Azhi Dahaka is not some Nirvana where the Meta-
morphosist achieves oneness with the universe, but rather 
the opposite — to undergo Metamorphosis is to completely 
separate oneself from Creation, to be a self-sufficient will in 
a universe that holds no more power over the ego.
Some believe so, anyway. Metamorphosis is a lonely 
pursuit. Many Fiends on the Path refuse to share their wis-
dom or even mislead those who seek it. Can you imagine a 
paranoid sire teaching his childer “secrets” that invite their 
own Final Deaths? My own sire once told me, “Anger is the 
judge among the undead. If another Cainite enrages you, he 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
51
Views on Metamorphosis
Eat, sleep, shit, fuck, die — what a list of chores! The Embrace delivers us from this drudgery, but 
still, we have our bad habits. Blood for one, and betrayal. Metamorphosis surpasses the Curse of Caine. 
Metamorphosis is the end of necessity, the unfettering of the ego. 
— Peter Plogojowitz, Exsanguinist
The Path has no definite end. Metamorphosis is a sojourn. It’s perpetual transition. Most people die 
like they live, waving their impotent little fists in the face of the universe. Not me. I’ve got places to go, 
metaphysically speaking. I don’t look up to the stars in the sky. The stars look up to me.
— Arnod Paole, advisor to the Voivode
When you’re safe in your own haven, surrounded by furniture you’ve built yourself — that’s Meta-
morphosis. Right now, I’m into working with lots of different materials. Children’s bones are very malleable, 
but they don’t bear much weight, so you have to use a lot of them. I’m very happy with this fainting couch 
I just finished; it cries when you sit on it, but I’ll show it to you if you like.
— Ahriman Berney-Scott, feng shui enthusiast
No one can show you Metamorphosis. The condition is, by definition, lofty. And once you achieve it, 
I can only imagine that describing it would be like explaining parliamentary procedure to a murder of crows. 
I hesitate to call such a state “transcendental,” since the word bears so many limited mortal notions. But I 
assure you — Metamorphosis is utterly inhuman.
— Troilus Cressida, ductus of the Golgotha’s Nails pack
After discarding all vestiges of humanity, one becomes Tzimisce itself — Azhi Dahaka.
— Laika, Tzimisce koldun 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
52
offends the predator within you.” That was the least of his 
lies, though I hope he found Azhi Dahaka under my fangs. 
Some Metamorphosists aren’t so stingy with their 
discoveries. A few traditionalists still remember the times 
when Metamorphosists were the roving sages of the clan 
and met at “Black Churches” to consult their enlightened 
fellows. Noddists have since usurped the learned reputation 
of the Metamorphosists — among the youngest of Cainites 
exploring the modern Paths, self-mastery is less popular 
than the power of Caine. But teachers still exist in the 
more populous cities; some followers have even formed 
“schools” of Metamorphosis to test their theories, learn 
from their peers and transmit their techniques to the young. 
For most Metamorphosists, physical change precedes 
spiritual change. Some believe, despite the obvious 
evidence of their undead existence, that no creature 
possesses a soul and that the Curse of Caine represents 
flesh run rampant, flesh liberated from the obliterating 
cycle of life and death. Others hold that the soul is just 
the body summarized. The diehard evolutionists (ask 
Ezra) believe that they must suit their bodies perfectly to 
their environments, usually to the nighttime metropolis 
and their suspicious prey — human and Cainite alike. 
Regardless, most Metamorphosists rely heavily on the 
fleshcrafting arts of our clan to affect their transformations. 
I do not know what these Metamorphosists were 
like in your day, ancient one, but in the Final Nights, 
they seem to take whatever form they please. My sire, 
himself the childe of an Exsanguinist, saw self-sufficiency 
as the precursor to enlightenment — a lofty goal for a 
creature that depends on the life-blood of kine. He made 
increasingly esoteric attempts to mold himself into a being 
that sustained itself efficiently. At first, he fashioned… 
tentacles, that’s the closest word to what they really were, 
from his lower intestines, each with its own mouth full 
of incisors. He kept himself attached to three ghouls at 
all times, constantly ingesting their blood. He quickly 
abandoned this form — even the hardiest ghouls dried 
up under his ravenous appetites. Instead, he crafted leaky 
membranes in the backs of his childer. Each night, he sent 
us out to feed. When we returned, he attached his hungry 
tentacles to us and claimed our blood for his own. Though 
the regular infusion of our blood made him a doting sire, 
I showed him that his offspring were not mere extensions 
of his undead organism. Such is but one example of the 
changes Metamorphosists inflict on themselves.
Metamorphosists see potential in the undead form. 
They strengthen their bones to weather crushing blows 
or sharpen them into pikes for impaling enemies. They 
relocate their vital organs to make their digestion of 
blood more efficient. They improve their eyes and ears 
to make them more sensitive to changes around them. 
Others rearrange themselves to conform to more esoteric 
concepts, imitating many-armed Hindu gods or molding 
their bodies into forms accordant to feng shui. 
Others ignore the physical element and, instead, 
seek to exploit the peculiar nature of undeath. Some 
such Metamorphosists feed only on their fellow Cainites, 
believing that an aversion to mortal blood is a sign of 
metaphysical superiority. Some believe that following 
certain precepts, such as “learn the characteristics of 
all stages of life and death,” will lead them to a reward 
similar to that mythic Golconda.
Metamorphosists often face a different problem from 
those who walk other Paths: Rather than struggling to up-
hold the tenets of their Path, Metamorphosists struggle to 
discover just what those tenets are. Azhi Dahaka is a poorly lit 
road. While many Fiends encounter similar difficulties, the 
forms these difficulties take depend on the Metamorphosist. 
A Fiend attached by bloodsucking tentacles to his ghouls 
interprets the denial of his feeding urge differently than a 
Fiend with no mouth would. Metamorphosist philosophy 
is so diverse that informal schools have sprung up all over 
the world. These schools debate the matter eternally and 
instruct their students in their findings, each espousing a 
slightly different Path of Metamorphosis.
The Lesser Paths 
Metamorphosists constitute but a small portion of 
Clan Tzimisce. The vampires of the Sabbat know other 
Paths of Enlightenment. We Tzimisce invented them, 
or so we say.
Actually, there must be some truth to this claim — 
Tzimisce, more than any other clan, tend to discard their 
humanity in undeath; the conditions we’re Embraced into 
often make it irrelevant — what’s human about search-
ing the spirit world for slumbering elders or performing 
experiments to determine what happens to the souls of 
aborted fetuses? But Tzimisce bow to nothing, not even 
the Beast, so the most tenacious turn to various Paths to 
deal with unlife. “Invented” is hyperbole, but inhuman 
packs of Tzimisce were probably among the first practitio-
ners of these ethical monstrosities. My research suggests 
that you missed this development by less than 200 years. 
A few ignorant or abandoned exceptions exist, but 
we Fiends have the fewest adherents to Humanity of any 
clan. If not Metamorphosis, then, as some Exsanguinists 
call them, one of the “Lesser Paths.”
The Path of Caine
Many Tzimisce Noddists take a particular slant 
toward their investigation into the unlife of Caine — 
they do to theories what Vicissitude does to flesh. To an 
outsider, it might seem like they value the esoteric and 
the implausible over the accurate so that they may outdo 
competing scholars (the Tzimisce who gain the highest 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
53
understanding of this Path must be patient indeed, given 
their low opinion of Noddists from lesser clans and the 
Path’s tenet of sharing what one knows with fellow schol-
ars). Usually, the unlikely nature of their conclusions is 
a product of their particular outlook. The Fiends aren’t 
playing word games or trying to amuse anyone. They seek 
nothing less than the power of Caine itself.
While some Noddists squander eternity digging in the 
dirt or squinting at fragments of ancient scrolls, Tzimisce in 
search of Caine favor diverse approaches — conversations 
with elders or spirits, memories stolen through diablerie, 
bloodletting vision quests, the composition of dramas and 
stories to explore their history, sojourns to the Middle East 
and, yes, when appropriate, archaeology and library research.
One circle of Tzimisce Noddists known as the Re-
claimationists contradict some Fiends’ preference for 
cautious diablerie. Not content merely to know Caine’s 
nature, they “reclaim” it by diablerizing their way through 
the generations to reach the stature of the Dark Father. The 
Reclaimationists consider Cainites who rely on mortal 
blood to be weaklings. They drink only Cainite vitae if 
they can. Reclaimationists take any opportunity to sate 
their appetites and often find themselves leading Wild 
Hunts or War Parties. Some spend their unlives in the 
zulo form, more comfortable in their “natural” state, ready 
to partake of the Amaranth with but a moment’s notice.
The Path of Cathari
Tzimisce who follow this Path set out to become the 
most potent material agents of the evil creator of reality. 
They craft themselves into forms as powerful and twisted 
as any Metamorphosist but don’t concern themselves with 
the spiritual baggage of their transcendental relatives. To 
Albigensian Fiends, Auspex distracts Cainites with the 
ephemeral qualities of the good creator, but Vicissitude 
is an end in itself, not some road to a higher existence. 
Physical power suffices. Fleshcraft allows them greater 
influence of the material world, which, according to the 
Albigensians, is the Cainites’ milieu. 
Fiends walking the Path of Cathari all but worship 
the zhupans for their mastery of the zulo form. Becom-
ing strong and intimidating beasts also ensures their 
survival. Many Albigensians believe in reincarnation, 
and if anything disgusts the Tzimisce, it’s the prospect 
of becoming mortal again.
The Path of Cathari has much to recommend itself 
to childer raised by traditional Tzimisce sires — utter 
selfishness, vice and wealth for its own sake and revelry 
in the abandon of frenzy.
The Path of Death and the Soul
In a way, the Tzimisce have always been Necrono-
mists. Since their first nights, the Fiends have had those 
among them who made a study of death and limits of 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
54
pain. The modern form of this study, codified into the 
Path of Death and the Soul, bears the mark of these an-
cient experiments. Most Cainites have little doubt that 
Fiends conceived this Path — its design is unmistakably 
Tzimisce — although every Cainite ponders death in his 
own way, the Necronomists regard it so… scientifically.
Necronomists tend to disregard conventional 
moralities in their study of death. In the most violent 
Sabbat cities, the local Necronomists are more than 
happy to collect any corpses left over after a Blood Feast 
or indiscriminate feeding. Some aren’t above trading a 
favor to a Cainite skilled with Necromancy in exchange 
for the chance to ask their cadavers a few questions. The 
most knowledgeable seek out Noddists for information 
on the Cappadocians, an extinct clan that supposedly 
understood the mysteries of life and death. 
Though small in number, the Necronomists, the 
majority of whom are Fiends, have enjoyed increasing 
power in recent nights because of their association with 
the Harbingers of Skulls. Few Cainites had anything 
From the Ground Up: Storytelling Metamorphosis
Given the possibilities of Metamorphosis, Storytellers should approach this Path a bit differently than others. 
In game terms, Metamorphosis isn’t about starting with a high Path rating and avoiding descent into the jaws of 
the Beast Within. It’s about starting near the bottom and hunting any information or developing any technique 
that will allow the Cainite to progress. In one sense, be flexible with the Hierarchy of Sins, because seekers of Azhi 
Dahaka find different ways to implement its abstract ideals. But don’t let them get away with anything — their 
progression along the Path should build upon what they have learned before. They can unlearn some elements 
but not without questioning their actions (i.e., making many Virtue rolls). 
Finally, Storytellers and players should keep in mind that a rating in the Path of Metamorphosis doesn’t 
necessarily represent how close a Cainite has come to the Azhi Dahaka. All it represents for sure is how well their 
beliefs subdue the Beast.
An Inferior Golconda
If the Path of Metamorphosis ends in Azhi Dahaka, then a Storyteller might wish to explore a story in which 
a character attains this state. What happens? Rules-wise, higher existences are tricky because hard-and-fast 
guidelines rob the accomplishment of its mystery (“If the character sees God, she may ask him 1d3 questions”).
Metamorphosis raises the same issues as Golconda: If it’s possible in your chronicle, how does a character 
accomplish it? By some accounts, undeath allows for only one definite state above vampirism. By others, it 
depends on the individual. What if Azhi Dahaka is just a metaphysical dead end, some change that confers a 
few benefits but is ultimately just advanced vampirism?
However the Storyteller decides to handle this question, achieving Metamorphosis should be more than 
earning a Path rating of 11. Certainly, any candidate for Metamorphosis must adhere faithfully to the Path, 
though some Tzimisce consider its precepts limiting. The character might gain higher ratings ceilings than his 
generation normally allows (maybe 7 rather than the 10 allowed by Golconda). He might acquire advanced 
understanding of Tzimisce Disciplines. Maybe Golconda isn’t just a myth, and Metamorphosis is Golconda. 
Keep in mind that that the Path predicates itself on being utterly inhuman and, ultimately, unlike the Curse 
of Caine — does the character still need to drink blood or fear sunlight and frenzy? A final note: Since the state 
is so alien, it almost certainly causes several derangements and may well make the character unsuitable for play. 
Would a Cainite who just achieved a higher state of existence have anything in common with her former pack? 
If you’re playing a character who might achieve Metamorphosis, talk to your Storyteller and discuss whether it 
would enrich the story or just snatch your character away at the moment of his ascension.
of worth to give these skull-faced warlocks when they 
escaped their imprisonment. Such old Cainites had 
more to offer the Sabbat than the Sabbat had to offer 
them. Certain Necronomists had an understanding of 
the soul that impressed even this clan of death. Many 
Lazarenes, versed in the oldest philosophies of the 
undead, converted to the Path of Death and the Soul. 
The exchange of knowledge between the two groups 
has yielded more than academic benefits. With the threat 
of such venerable Cainites behind them, some Necrono-
mists, formerly regarded as distracted intellectuals, have 
risen to become ducti or bishops. One was even confirmed 
through the Blood Bath as a priscus, who now exploits 
his travels as an opportunity to study fatal calamities all 
over the Western Hemisphere. He’s dug through collapsed 
buildings in earthquake-shattered Mexico and picked 
smoldering skulls from forest fires in Colorado. I spoke 
to him at the last Palla Grande; he now seems bent on 
persuading the regent to form closer ties to the Giovanni 
clan — his investigations have lead him to believe that 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
55
the family has some grand design that could benefit all 
of Caine’s children.
The Path of Evil Revelations
Soul, self, identity, ego — whatever it is, it’s pre-
cious to the Tzimisce. Few, then, throw away their most 
valued possession — the essential freedom of their 
existence — for whatever temporal power Hell’s con 
men are pushing this week. Nothing’s worth a Tzimisce 
soul. A Fiend desperate enough to resort to infernalism 
is beneath contempt. 
Of course, making a deal with the Devil is not al-
ways the same as selling him your soul. Kupala’s Night 
comes to mind.…
The Path of the Feral Heart
The Path of the Feral Heart demonstrates the gen-
erational divide that grows between Tzimisce neonates 
and elders. Although older Fiends cannot believe that 
younger Cainites can master the Beast without a moral 
education, Tzimisce Embraced in the Final Nights — 
especially those nomadic packs that move from city to 
city — embark on the Path of the Feral Heart under 
the tutelage of many different Beasts who, like itinerant 
preachers, seek converts during ritae or crusades. Fortu-
nately, most of their would-be students are too young to 
exist by such an esoteric philosophy. Some learn to act 
like Beasts, but few master the Beast Within. 
But to the young urban predators who do take up 
the Path in earnest, the Metamorphosis espoused by 
their elders is superstitious nonsense. These neonates 
believe that being a Cainite is already, in itself, a higher 
state of existence. The secret is not to transcend the 
Curse of Caine, but to master it. 
Only the rare Tzimisce advances far along this 
Path. But in some cities, particularly in Mexico, gangs 
of Tzimisce, most of them veterans of the Second Sab-
bat Civil War, embrace the Feral Heart. They remind 
me of the packs that razed Thorns on the night of the 
infamous convention. They share their blood with As-
samites and Brujah and all manner of mongrel Cainites. 
The Path of Honorable Accord
Few Tzimisce outside the Children of the Dracon 
follow the Path of Honorable Accord. Those who do 
are usually neofeudalists or the childer of traditional 
Fiends who joined the Sabbat out of necessity rather 
than sympathy. To some Fiends, bravery, hospitality and 
punishment of the dishonorable are assumed behaviors, 
not a philosophy that requires great focus to uphold. 
But voicing this opinion to Tzimisce Knights can be 
perilous — the small number who still exist are usually 
very well connected to older powers within the clan. 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
56
The Path of Lilith
Cast out of Eden, you say? Pain is the greatest 
teacher, you say? Ultimate freedom and self-discovery, 
too? If not for the fact that the Path is considered hereti-
cal even within the Sabbat, and that the Path rejects 
temporal wealth and power, Clan Tzimisce might have 
become Clan Bahari by now. Still, is it any surprise that 
individuals from a clan characterized as a bunch of mad 
scientists, Metamorphosists, perverts and scholars of 
eldritch lore might be attracted to the Path of Lilith?
Lilin Tzimisce are the eccentric vanguard of our 
eccentric clan. These Fiends usually combine the most 
respected pursuits of the clan with their maligned fol-
lowing of Lilith. They hunt down lore with a curiosity 
to rival any Noddist, raise their childer with the care of 
the most dutiful sire and seek an understanding of the 
universe that exceeds the ambition of all but the most 
obsessive Metamorphosist. To date, bloody disagree-
ments between Lilins and those who revere Caine keep 
the numbers of heretics to a minimum.
The Path of Power and the Inner Voice
A Lasombra named Lord Marcus claims to have 
developed the Path of Power and Inner Voice in the 
16th century. Is there anything the Lasombra won’t 
steal from the Tzimisce? 
Look at the tenets of the Path — what Keeper has 
ever respected a superior or waited until he faltered 
before usurping him? 
Although some Tzimisce Unifiers are neofeudalists, 
most Fiends who follow this Path preserve the outlook 
rather than the trappings of the Transylvanian voivodes. 
Driven by their Path, Fiend Unifiers are among the most 
powerful Tzimisce in the Sabbat. They seek any position 
of authority, whether secular or spiritual. The numbers 
of pack priests and prisci who follow this Path rival the 
numbers of Unifier bishops and ducti.
A noteworthy portion of the clan’s strength lies in 
the Unifiers — it is a great innovation of the Sabbat’s 
that their most power-hungry members are also bound to 
respect their betters and treat their underlings well. While 
our clan is hardly the meritocracy that some make it out 
to be, the Unifiers keep the Tzimisce tough and lean. 
Acquiring power isn’t enough — one must also keep it.
Revenants
At least one aspect of our clan has endured: the 
servitude of the revenant families, those mortal lines 
that have borne our blood for so long that they no 
longer require its constant infusion. If the mortal 
world frightens you, old one, seek protection from the 
revenants. Though their numbers are far smaller than 
you may remember, their loyalty to our clan remains 
unquestionable, excepting the odd rebellious child.
Since your time, at least, revenants have served the 
Fiends as caretakers, advisors, warriors and potential 
childer. Though the mortal life span has lengthened 
during your slumber, revenants still live far longer than 
mortals — some revenant children know their great-
great-great-great-great grandmothers. The members of 
each family still share a particular weakness of the blood. 
Different families exhibit different aspects of Caine.
Perhaps you can tell me how these revenant families 
come to be? We have little to go on in these modern 
times. According to Wallachian folklore, some families 
were so evil that anyone who shared their name was 
cursed to serve devils. Since these families owned and 
cultivated so much of the tainted soil of the “land beyond 
the forest,” some koldun believe that that they became 
bound to their holdings by greed or obligation. More 
scientific Fiends, like myself, believe that the constant 
ingestion of Tzimisce blood from birth to death for so 
many generations created the revenants. But Assamites 
and Giovanni, with domains in lands untouched by 
indigenous land-spirits, have supposedly created their 
own families; how many ways can one make a revenant? 
The mystery of their origins pales next to the mystery 
of their name. “Revenant” means “one who returns.” 
When do revenants ever “return”? Perhaps they do so 
each generation without needing new Blood. 
The standard explanation from the patriarchs of the 
families is the tale of a servant. His last name depends on 
who’s telling the story. He was so useful to his lord that the 
noble wanted him to “return” again and again until the 
end of the world so that he would always have a capable 
servant. His descendents were the servant’s vehicle to 
immortality. Some heretical Bratovitches tell a slightly dif-
ferent version of this story in which the family receives the 
Blood in exchange for teaching the Tzimisce Vicissitude.
Though some of our clanmates have grown tired of 
the revenant experiment and would see them destroyed 
as a threat to our sect’s secrecy, the families still have 
their uses: They provide reliable hospitality to traveling 
Fiends. They produce the most suitable agents for deal-
ing with the daytime world — szlachta are too warped, 
vozhd are useless outside their capacity as behemoth war 
machines, and ghouls unfamiliar the clan’s ways are young 
and ignorant — they require too many years of remedial 
education. Revenants can exploit un-Blooded relatives of 
their families as well — though they are not revenants, 
their heritage makes them exceptional mortals (more 
than a dozen members of the 143-seat Romanian Senat 
are rumored to be related to a Bratovitch or Zantosa). 
Given enough time, who knows how advanced a species 
they can become? Finally, the revenants record the his-


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
57
tory that most of our clan is unconcerned with. In the 
ignorant Final Nights, a few Obertus know more about 
the clan than many Fiends themselves. 
Four revenant families and several minor lineages 
have endured to the Final Nights. Some of the families 
have met their fates, old one. Larger families absorbed the 
Narov and Ruthvenski. The Obertus, fearing a similar 
fate, use a surprisingly primitive method to ensure bal-
anced numbers of male and female offspring so that too 
many daughters won’t marry away the family name into 
obscurity. The last names Vlaszy and Khavi aren’t entirely 
lost, but they are preserved only in revenants who received 
the Embrace. Another three families are so hated that the 
few Tzimisce who remember them refuse to speak their 
names. It pains me too much to even write them — no 
doubt you already suspect their names.
Bratovitch
Colorful as peacocks, unclean as swine, mean as rabid 
dogs — the Bratovitches in a nutshell. They live out their 
extended lives on their dilapidated plantations in the South 
and rural estates in the hills of the North. Surrounded by 
quaint but dusty antiques, families of Bratovitches work 
together, eat together, fuck together, tend the hellhounds 
together and serve our clan together. Family is everything 
to the Bratovitches, even if all that togetherness leaves a 
few of them paralyzed and/or knocked up.
The history of our clan is the history of the Bratovitch 
family. In feudal Europe, Bratovitches ruled many eastern 
demesnes. If the land was at war with its neighbors and the 
serfs smiled when they died, chances were a Bratovitch 
held power. Though more Tzimisce in those nights bore 
the name Szantovich, Bratovitch Fiends constituted the 
majority in what is now Poland and along the border be-
tween Transylvania and Wallachia. By their own account, 
they were the first revenant family, or at least the first the 
Tzimisce didn’t destroy within a few years of its creation.
When the Tzimisce anarchs rebelled against their 
sires, the Bratovitch revenants sided with the voivodes. It 
really wasn’t a tough decision to make — some of the clan’s 
most powerful elders were Bratovitch, and every child of 
the family had been told from birth that disobeying their 
masters was the only sin they were not allowed to commit.
But the Bratovitches hadn’t reached such stature 
through suicidal obedience. When it came time to switch 
loyalties to the anarchs, they knew how best to make amends. 
They slaughtered every Bratovitch child who had been born 
since the revolt began. No young revenant would remember 
that the family had served anyone other than the anarchs.
Even in the Final Nights, the family serves the rebels, 
we who now call ourselves the Sabbat. Although Brato-
vitches are rarely lords of demesnes any longer, they have 
retained the bestial features of their ancestors — heads 
too big for their hunched bodies, mouths with too many 
teeth, tiny eyes arranged a bit too close together to avoid 
notice but that nonetheless warn of a cannibal intelligence. 
While the Bratovitches have forever lost the noble 
status of nights past, they remain useful to us. Many 
estates harbor kennels of hellhounds. Their keepers 
breed dogs for size and ferocity, then feed them meat 
laced with Tzimisce vitae. The Bratovitches fleshcraft 
the resulting monsters to meet the needs of their clients, 
usually the Tzimisce who donates the blood or high-
ranking Sabbat in need of loyal and alert guardians.
Not every Bratovitch tends the hounds. Although 
most traveling Fiends would rather dig their own tem-
porary grave than take shelter at a Bratovitch estate, 
the revenants of this family also serve as guides and 
trackers through the countryside. In the modern nights, 
few Tzimisce traipse through the woods. When they do, 
they want someone at their side who knows how to avoid 
Lupines. And when it comes to a rural manhunt, the 
Bratovitches and their bloodhounds are bred for the job.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
58
Grimaldi
I’m not sure that you’ve dealt with the Grimaldi 
— they became a Blooded family only a century or two 
before you fell into torpor. But I’m sure you dealt with 
Radu Bistri, the spokesmen for the Old World voivodes. 
Radu brought the family into the Blood to strengthen 
the clan’s ties to the mortal world, and they continue 
to fulfill that role today. They understood the new 
economy that was overtaking Europe at the time. A few 
of Radu’s contemporaries wanted to use the Giovanni 
family instead, but — oh dear. Ask Ezra what happened 
to the Cappadocians while you slept — Radu insisted 
on the Grimaldi because the Giovanni had a reputation 
as thieves and double-dealers while the Grimaldi were 
regarded as upright and honest merchants.
Even in the Final Nights, the Grimaldi continue to 
involve themselves in the mortal world where we would 
find it distasteful. Within the cities that house their 
compounds, the Grimaldi have access to the highest 
mortal powers — positions in government, industry or 
the media. Though some Grimaldi claim this authority 
directly, more often they advise it. Grimaldi advise may-
ors, editors in chief and board members of corporations. 
They marry those they can’t advise. Grimaldi and 
Kennedy mingle their blood in America — Grimaldi and 
Duckworth in England. The high positions of the Grimaldi 
revenants are useful to the Sabbat, but far more useful 
is their connection to those who share just a bit of our 
blood, the distant relations who profit from their superior 
breeding but remain ignorant of their august heritage. 
The Camarilla upholds a Tradition known as “the 
Masquerade” — a pact among Cainites to keep their 
existence hidden from humanity. Though some factions 
in the Sabbat find the Camarilla’s obsession with hiding 
to be distasteful, we maintain our own Masquerade out 
of good common sense. Since you survived the Inquisi-
tion, I’m sure you understand this better than I.
This revenant family’s most important service to 
us is to keep mortals ignorant of the Curse of Caine. 
The Grimaldi sustains our Masquerade whenever some 
reckless childe threatens to reveal us to the mortal 
world. An injudicious rumble with another pack, a 
sloppy feeding or a sighting of a Cainite using a Gift of 
Caine — the Grimaldi have concealed these and other 
truths from the kine. 
They bury the most obvious evidence of Cainites in the 
most mundane ways. A few years ago, a mortal in Boston 
witnessed one of our clanmates assume the blood-form 
and wash over a car, drowning those inside. A respected 
reporter who does not go by the name Grimaldi but is of 
the Blood nonetheless received the police report within an 
hour of its filing from her lover in the police department. 
She called her contact at a national tabloid (a disreputable 
town crier, old one). The tabloid ran the story two days 
later, and the world viewed it as a sensational fairytale. Her 
police contact “misfiled” the report. When it resurfaced 
several weeks later, the story was already old and, because 
it appeared in a tabloid first, already dead.
Still, some of the moral uprightness for which the 
family was Blooded has withered under our care. Though 
their children are often sent to the best private schools, 
they are expelled far too often for aggravated incidents 
ranging from ear biting to hostage taking. And a few 
upstart children reject their family’s purpose, denouncing 
their family’s fortune and their Tzimisce masters. They 
try to live as true mortals and make a great show of just 
how human they are by helming charitable foundations 
or becoming doctors or cut-rate attorneys that speak for 
the poor. Their parents are sometimes too sentimental 
to deal with them properly, though, thankfully, even the 
most rebellious Grimaldi understands circumspection. 
Despite a few errant children, I have no doubt that 
the Grimaldi are the most loyal of the revenant houses 
and that they will serve us until Gehenna arrives. Al-
though they work in the interests of the Tzimisce first, 
the family is at the disposal of the Sabbat at large. Every 
Grimaldi is blood bound to a member of the Sabbat, 
not necessarily a Fiend, at an age convenient to the 
Cainite. These Sabbat usually hold some authority 
— a bishop, archbishop, priscus or the odd ductus or 
pack priest of a famous pack. The regent even keeps a 
dedicated Grimaldi retinue in Mexico City to apprise 
her of goings-on in the mortal world. 
If anything will challenge the Grimaldi’s loyalty in the 
next few years, it will be the regent. One of the patriarchs 
of the family, bound to me 200 years ago, reports that 
the regent no longer bonds the children of the estate and 
refuses to feed her blood to the older retinue, though she 
has been far too eager to do so for the past several years. 
My revenant suspects that her blood has turned to water, 
perhaps, or that she has contracted our clan’s particular 
disease and wishes to keep it a secret. 
Obertus
The smell of a clean room always takes me back to 
the first time I visited an Obertus estate. I remember that 
the air riptides over untextured hardwood floors that of-
fer no sanctuary to dirt. This dry air (the Obertus regard 
humidity like we regard an uninvited guest) surfs over texts 
stolen from the Library of Alexandria, sold or donated to 
monasteries in Old Byzantium, again stolen from Orthodox 
cathedrals — in that unmentionable time when the family 
fled Constantinople to places like Bucharest and Oradea 
and Sibiu — centuries later shipped in watertight trunks 
to the New World, packed with the care of a family that 
has witnessed history through a looking glass. These texts 
adorn the libraries of the Obertus — dustless, preserved, 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
59
eternal despite their ancient origins. Not even the Chil-
dren of the Dracon may touch these perfect works unless 
they wash their hands and their servants surrender their 
cigarettes. In these matters, Obertus are obedient but 
insistent. Their estates are very clean. 
Most Fiends know that a fourth revenant house serves 
their clan, some house of scholars that occasionally research 
obscure subjects for their masters. The koldun scratch 
their heads — they don’t remember instilling the Blood 
in them; the lineage must be an obscure one. (Mexico 
City hosts a Bratovitch estate, a Zantosa estate and two 
compounds full of Grimaldi, but no House Obertus.) A 
few Tzimisce — the Voivode, the prisci, some Noddists, 
Metamorphosists and the odd Lilin — know this family 
as the Obertus, revenants who serve as keepers of books, 
texts, artifacts and records that the clan has accumulated 
over the centuries. Toward the end of their lives, some 
Obertus write books of their own to add to the collection. 
The Children of the Dracon know the Obertus even more 
intimately — the family serves them not only as archivists, 
but servants, protectors and their primary source of childer.
Dracon or no, the dutiful Obertus assist any Fiend 
who may have need of them. Such aid is a necessary dis-
traction that devours centuries. Most of these revenants, 
in the family’s obsessive way, would rather reread tomes 
they’ve already studied 50 times, playing cat-and-mouse 
with details they didn’t know to look for a decade earlier.
Most members of the Obertus family develop an 
obsession to which they dedicate the centuries. Most, 
instructed in the barely explainable nuances of the 
world of Cainites since birth, fixate on supernatural 
studies — many explore the Curse of Caine, studying 
ancient genealogies or writing treatises on why certain 
clans are more adept at subduing minds than others. 
Many investigate more obscure topics: wizards, Lupines, 
extinct mystery cults and the end of the world.
Do not think that their loyalty is universal: A member 
of my pack, an Obertus in life, tells me that a few of her 
relatives, not the youngest or the oldest but a group that 
came of age when Social Darwinism was an acceptable 
topic for Sunday dinner conversation, prepare the way 
for Homo sapiens to become Homo obertus. Evolution 
results from climate changes and other selective pres-
sures, but these Obertus foresee no great calamity — no 
Armageddon, Gehenna or World War III. Thousands 
of small calamities will suffice. Smog, AIDS, democratic 
capitalism, crank, automobiles, asbestos and super-sized 
McDonalds meals already cull the weak. This environ-
ment favors the hearty. To survive the modern nights, it 
helps if your mother and father can offer you the Blood 
of Caine. In that regard, the Obertus have what it takes 
to endure. The sages shall inherit the Earth. 
For the conceits about being a well-Blooded family, 
it’s doubtful that their ancestors were related at all. The 
“Obertus,” or “the hidden,” have served the Tzimisce 
since the nights of Constantinople as monastic clergy, 
keeping the faith that the Byzantine Cainites had built 
around themselves. Only the family itself knows how it 
came to Eastern Europe. Although they weathered the 
early Tremere-Tzimisce struggles, isolated scholars were of 
little use in the nights of the Anarch Revolt. The eldest 
revenants of the Obertus, erudite historians of generational 
conflict among the undead, must have known that history 
favored the childer. They sided with the nascent Sabbat 
against their elders and, a bloody century later, abandoned 
their manses and monasteries in favor of the New World. 
When the Sabbat began its migration to the Americas, 
their learned servants were at the docks to welcome them. 
Throughout New England and both South and Cen-
tral America, estates of Obertus prosper in quiet fishing 
villages and out-of-the-way hamlets, home schooling 
their children in the names of our hoary clan and its 
history. The older generations, weary of child rearing, 
continue the family’s studies. The younger Obertus, the 
doting parents, await the night when their child finally 
“sets her mind on something.” And if a few wayward 
progeny cannot find a study worthy of obsession… well, 
someone’s got to do the wash.
Zantosa
Sex on rooftops. White slavery. Heroin injected 
under the tongue because most of the veins — fucking 
revenant veins — collapsed. Penthouse snuff films. 
Murders of the rich and famous. Highballs and piano 
wire. Children mowed down by hit and run. Working 
girls taken by the ears. A thousand in cash for the cop to 
look the other way. The most powerful men in America 
gone totally sideways for a week and three days. Football 
in traffic and an appetite for horse meat. STDs passed 
around like joints. Dance to death. 
These sins are more familiar to you than they may 
sound, old one. Sins of excess dominate the New World, 
and the Zantosa are addicted to them all. They are the 
Szantoviches you may remember, the aristocracy of the 
Old World that never met a temptation it did not suc-
cumb to. If the book of the nailed kine-god condemns 
it, somewhere, a Zantosa treats it as sacrament. 
Although I no longer see the appeal of such a life-
style, I know that mortals enjoy such things. Perhaps 
it is a weakness of the Zantosa blood that they form 
habits so quickly.
Although some of my peers believe that their usefulness 
to our cause has passed, their playfulness endears them to 
me. They have already taken the first step to transcending 
their humanity. They discard the usual mortality that most 
kine bear chained to their ankles. Some of them even follow 
the Path of Cathari, a debauched road that few Cainites 
can traverse with such success as these demi-undead.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
60
Many of my fellow Sabbat would prefer never to deal 
with humanity. Then let the Zantosa deal with the kine, 
I say. Although they often succumb to addiction, they 
maintain valuable connections to the mortal world. I have 
often found it true of humanity that the more powerful 
the kine, the more he is ruled by unusual passions. The 
Zantosa know such people; they throw parties for them at 
their estates in New York and Mexico City — the jet-set 
Arab sheik that snorts a significant fraction of his country’s 
GDP up his nose every year. The Viacom CFO who always 
has that thing up his ass. The mob capo who offers a share of 
the rackets in exchange for a mistress named Zantosa. The 
editor of the New York Times who collects photos that his 
paper would never, ever print. The Senator who staffs his 
meth lab with young girls from Indonesia and Paraguay. 
Allow these humans to indulge their passions discreetly, 
and you are their most valuable association: their dealer.
I have heard that in your time, old one, more Tzimisce 
bore the name Szantovich than any other. Although 
some of our clanmates still grant the Zantosa undeath, 
the family now produces neonates for several clans of the 
Sabbat. The Toreador antitribu, the Serpents of the Light 
and a few of the Hungarian Ventrue antitribu lineages now 
draw childer from the family that was once practically 
synonymous with our clan. The Toreador antitribu appreci-
ate the smoke-it-or-fuck-it lifestyle of the Zantosa. The 
Serpents of the Light, like their parent clan, are hypno-
tized by corruption and vice, and the Hungarian Ventrue 
are reminded of their Old World nobility whenever the 
Zantosa release more peasants for the hunt. 
Ghouls
Although a vocal portion of the Sabbat views reliance 
on mortals as a sign of weakness, as I’m sure Cainites of 
your time did, many of the sect’s members share their 
blood with humans and even less impressive species. The 
Tzimisce are no exception — although most of us prefer to 
use revenants for more complex tasks, the clan has a long 
history of relying on mortals as soldiers, bodyguards, butlers 
and test subjects. Given our mastery over the animal king-
dom, we are not above using beasts, especially predators. 
It is a common conceit that few Tzimisce ghouls es-
cape their servitude unaltered — that their modifications 
forever distinguish them and fit them to their tasks. While 
this is certainly true of some of our brethren, the entire 
Cainite enterprise would be uncovered and extinguished 
if every Fiend lead an army of szlachta howling through 
the night. Some Tzimisce fleshcraft their ghouls, but this is 
notable in that we are the only Cainites, as a clan, capable 
of performing such modifications.
That said, the arts of Vicissitude have not been lost 
while you slumbered, old one. When it comes to our ghouls, 
not even the youngest Fiends have been able to completely 
discard our traditions. Although, to my knowledge, none has 
been seen for at least a century, some children of Tzimisce 
still know (instinctively, my sire once said) the name vozhd.
Ghoul Templates
Below are templates for the most common types of ghouls 
that serve Clan Tzimisce. Some ratings differ slightly from 
those published in other supplements. Different Tzimisce 
build different ghouls. Besides, if the player or Storyteller has 
time, individual ghouls should probably be customized — a 
“generic” ghoul is no more realistic than a “generic” Cainite. 
In a pinch, use whatever templates you prefer. 
Hellhound
Hellhounds are large dogs, mostly mastiffs, made ghouls 
to serve the Tzimisce. In the Dark Ages, Tzimisce took 
advantage of the hellhound’s animal awareness and bred 
ferocity to protect their havens. Bratovitch revenants con-
tinue to breed them and sometimes use their fleshcrafting 
skills to give their dogs larger fangs, stronger muscles and, 
through a technique known to the oldest Bratovitches, 
keener eyesight and sense of smell.
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4
Social: Not applicable
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 1, Wits 3
Abilities: Alertness 4, Athletics 2, Brawl 4, Dodge 3, 
Empathy 1, Intimidation 4, Stealth 2
Disciplines: Potence 2
Willpower: 6
Blood Pool: 4
Attack: Bite/5 dice, Claw/3 dice
Health Levels: OK, OK, -1, -1, -2, -2, -5, Incapacitated
Szlachta
In the Final Nights, szlachta has become a catchall term 
for ghouls fleshcrafted for use as bodyguards. Fiends mold 
these creatures to be soldiers or guardians, so they have any 
number of spikes, claws, serrated protuberances and other 
bodily implements of destruction. The template below de-
scribes just one variety of szlachta — most Tzimisce with any 
skill at fleshcrafting give their ghouls signature deformities. 
Some also mark their property like a rancher marks cattle. 
Humanoid Szlachta
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5
Social: Charisma 1, Manipulation 1, Appearance 0
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 1, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, 
Melee 1, Stealth 2, Survival 4 (Tracking)
Disciplines: Fortitude 1, Potence 1
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 3, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 2
Willpower: 4
Attacks: Most szlachta have bony protrusions, spikes 
or teeth that cause lethal damage.


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
61
Health Levels: As per the mortal stock from which they 
were drawn. This is typically the normal seven health 
levels possessed by any (once-) human being.
Animal Szlachta
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4
Social: Not applicable
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 1, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 3, 
Empathy 1, Intimidation 2, Stealth 3
Disciplines: Fortitude 1, Potence 2
Willpower: 2
Attacks: Bite/5 dice, Claw/3 dice
Health Levels: OK, OK, -1, -1, -2, -3, -5, Incapacitated.
Vozhd
Vozhd are gigantic amalgamations of ghouls, at least 
two stories tall and weighing almost six tons. Their very 
bodies are implements of destruction, covered as they are 
with mouths full of razor-sharp teeth, six-foot bone spikes 
jutting out at every possible angle and tentacles to draw prey 
into their reach. These creatures have little intelligence, 
are notoriously too enraged to control reliably and have 
but one use: to destroy everything in sight.
The creation of such a monstrosity requires at least 15 
creatures, though some include well over 30. The Obertus 
library in New York City houses an account of a vozhd cre-
ated from 100 ghouls contributed by six different Fiends. 
Animals, as well as humans, can be used to create 
these beasts. In the Old World, most Tzimisce who knew 
the proper rituals used wolves, goats and falcons, even the 
horses and livestock of their subjects when other animals 
were scarce. Few Tzimisce know how to create vozhd in 
the modern nights, but among the packs of Mexico City, 
rumors persist of titantic monstrosities composed of hu-
man bodies mingled with household pets, sea creatures 
or thousands of smaller animals such as rats or snakes.
To create a vozhd, the Fiend fleshcrafts the ghouls together 
into something like a cohesive entity. Perhaps she forms all 
the ghoul’s skeletons into one structure then wraps it with the 
ghouls’ flesh and organs. Though the process can take months, 
the Fiend must hurry because these broken creatures, not yet 
one entity, require constant infusions of vitae to prevent death 
from shock. Still, a certain amount of prolonged suffering is 
necessary to give the resulting vozhd the proper rage. 
Once the construction is complete, the Tzimisce feeds 
the ghouls a concoction of blood drawn from each of them, 
in effect creating a blood bond among all the minds that will 
eventually become the vozhd. Building upon this bond, the 
Fiend must coalesce the Beasts Within into a single, albeit 
mad and imperfect, Beast. Traditionally, a koldunic ritual 
creates this effect, though the ritual is almost unknown 
in the modern nights. A few Tzimisce have gained such a 
sophisticated understanding of the Animalism Discipline 
that they can bring about the same result.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
62
Even at the height of the clan’s dominance in the 
Old World, few Tzimisce knew the proper ritual and 
fewer still resorted to the creation of such uncontrol-
lable wrecking machines. In the modern nights, even 
the most learned Tzimisce elders can count the number 
of vozhd they know to exist on one hand. 
Physical: Strength 8, Dexterity 2, Stamina 6
Social: Not applicable
Mental: Perception 1, Intelligence 1, Wits 2
Disciplines: Fortitude 4, Potence 6 (Note: immune 
to all powers of Dominate, Presence and Animalism 
below five dots)
Willpower: 10
Blood Pool: 20/2
Health Levels: OK (x5), -1 (x5), -2 (x5), -5 (x3), In-
capacitated
Attack: Strike/8 dice + Potence; Bite 8 dice, automatic 
on the turn after a grab; Crush/6 dice + Potence, con-
strict thereafter
Multiple Attacks: Vozhd receive 10 extra dice to divide 
among multiple attack dice pools, though no individual 
attack may exceed the vozhd’s usual Dexterity + Brawl 
dice pool
Abilities: Alertness 5, Brawl 2, Intimidation 6
Note: At the Storyteller’s discretion, the sight of a vozhd may 
call for a Willpower or Rötshreck roll or a Wits + Occult 
roll (difficulty 10) to avoid a spontaneous derangement.
Derangements
Many Tzimisce treat their ghouls like painters might 
treat canvases if they were free and available in unlimited 
supply. Few Tzimisce consider the psychological damage 
their experiments cause. Serving the Tzimisce, or worse, 
serving as their lab rats, causes some ghouls to develop 
severe mental disorders. Ghouls: Fatal Addiction lists some 
ghoul-specific derangements. Included below are three 
derangements that Tzimisce ghouls have a particularly high 
risk of developing. With the exception of Sexual Dysfunc-
tion, these derangements are also appropriate for Cainites. 
Revenants have a high risk of developing these 
derangements, not only because of their contact with 
Tzimisce but their abusive childhoods as well. A revenant 
who grew up knowing that her father would bite off one 
of her fingers every time she misbehaved might become 
histrionic in the search for affection. Or she might have 
flashbacks of the night daddy bit off her pinkie for dropping 
a plate. She might be unable to trust a lover because of her 
father’s mistreatment. If she eventually becomes a Cainite, 
she will most likely carry these scars even into undeath. 
Histrionics 
Some ghouls sublimate their urge to escape or believe 
that their new powers entitle them to a certain amount of 
attention. Ghouls who develop histrionics must be center 
Servants of the Blood
Below are the Disciplines that the various revenants 
have access to and the weakness that afflicts each family. 
For more information on revenants, see the Guide to 
the Sabbat (pp. 216-219) and Ghouls: Fatal Addiction. 
Bratovitch
Disciplines: Animalism, Potence, Vicissitude
Weakness: The Bratovitches are a tempera-
mental bunch. Their impatience rivals that of the 
hotheaded Brujah. They tend to upset or offend 
well-adjusted mortals with their rabid demeanor. 
Raise their difficulties to resist frenzy by two.
Grimaldi
Disciplines: Celerity, Dominate, Fortitude
Weakness: Grimaldi serve not just the Fiends, 
but the Sabbat at large. To ensure their loyalty, every 
member of the family is blood bound to a True Sabbat 
of some authority.
Obertus
Disciplines: Auspex, Obfuscate, Vicissitude
Weakness: A family of unbalanced intellectuals, 
most Obertus have obsessive/compulsive disorder 
(Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 222) or a similar 
intellectual derangement.
Zantosa
Disciplines: Auspex, Presence, Vicissitude
Weakness: Zantosa make easy marks for tempta-
tion. Members of the family cannot spend Willpower 
to resist supernatural enticements to pleasure. Regard-
less of the source of the temptation, a Zantosa must 
succeed on a Willpower roll (difficulty determined 
by the Storyteller) whenever he particularly enjoys 
an experience. Failure indicates that the Zantosa 
becomes addicted to the experience and obsessively 
seeks to relive it as often as possible.
stage in all situations. They affect extreme but shallow 
emotions or behave and dress provocatively. Each scene, a 
histrionic ghoul must spend a point of Willpower to avoid 
seeking the spotlight in some way. If his quest for recogni-
tion is unsuccessful, he cannot spend Willpower; raise his 
difficulty to avoid frenzy by three for the rest of the scene.
Vampires develop this derangement as well. A childe 
might subconsciously rebel against the indifference of 
a sire. An old Cainite who lacks the status implied by 
his age might become obsessed with being noticed. A 
Nosferatu might overcompensate for his hideous appear-
ance or even for spending too much time Obfuscated. 
Players beware: This derangement isn’t a license to hog 
every scene, then write it off as roleplaying. Histrionics are 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
63
hypersensitive to the opinions of others, not oblivious to the 
glares of the crowd as they enact some slapstick melodrama. 
Histrionic cases are pathetic, and most people recognize 
them as such the first time they flash their shit-eating grins 
or refuse to leave the stage. A histrionic might latch onto 
one person the entire evening and pester her for every ounce 
of attention. He might become sullen or leave in a huff if he 
believes that someone has upstaged him. If your Storyteller 
allows this derangement, roleplay it as the emotional disorder 
it is rather than an excuse to be obnoxious. 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) arises in re-
sponse to severe trauma such as combat, rape or servitude 
to a Tzimisce. A ghoul who has been the subject of his 
master’s latest experiment with superdermal bone art or 
witnessed his hungry master devour his mortal family 
might develop this derangement. PTSD can even afflict 
vampires, perhaps those who survived a Lupine attack or 
awoke one night to find their havens on fire. 
Symptoms manifest as recurrent, debilitating flash-
backs and extreme avoidance of situations likely to 
recreate the initial trauma. The player of a ghoul or Cainite 
afflicted with PTSD must spend a point of Willpower for 
her character to enter such situations. If compelled by a 
blood bond or other forms of control, the sufferer’s player 
cannot spend Willpower to gain automatic successes on 
any rolls, and all of the character’s dice pools are halved 
(round down). In any circumstances, botched Willpower 
rolls or other stimuli deemed appropriate by the Story-
teller induce flashbacks of the traumatic episode with the 
same penalties described above. Ghouls laboring under 
this disorder are typically disposed of by their domitors. 
Clan Tzimisce requires servants made of sterner stuff.
Sexual Dysfunction
A ghoul who spends any time in the thrall of a 
Tzimisce domitor is likely encumbered with a variety 
of sexual dysfunctions. Female ghouls typically develop 
vaginismus, involuntary contracting of the vulval and 
rectal muscles preventing penetration, or dyspareunia, 
severe pain during intercourse. Males, if not rendered 
completely impotent, sometimes fixate sexually on acts 
favored by their domitors. All such conditions are likely to 
instill an extreme aversion to sex, further separating ghouls 
from the lifestyles they lead prior to their servitorship. 
Before allowing this derangement, Storytellers 
should consider whether its inclusion will make any 
players uncomfortable. Many people prefer not to ex-
plore such personal issues in detail, especially during a 
game. Although the setting is a suitable venue for such 
unpleasantness, you can challenge your players without 
resorting to poor taste. These caveats in mind, this de-
rangement can be played without mentioning graphic 
details — Storytellers can extrapolate the likely effects 
such a condition might have on a ghoul’s relationship 
with his or her partners.
Koldunic Sorcery
Koldunic Sorcery used to be the province of a few 
Old World koldun. Now, the art trickles down through the 
generations. Even a few neonates know the ways. 
Why have we resorted to teaching children our magic?
It depends on whom you ask. The current Voivode believes 
that the old koldun did not volunteer their wisdom. Instead, a 
pack stole their secrets and disseminated them haphazardly, 
perhaps to deprive some elder the fearsomeness he wielded as 
the proprietor of forbidden knowledge. Members of the con-
sistory think that the destruction of the clan’s most powerful 
koldun prompted the surviving sorcerers to find students, lest 
their craft disappear just as Gehenna unfolds. 
Koldunism has always been a young Cainites’ art, 
though when it was last widely practiced, long before you 
fell into torpor, the youngest Cainites were members of 
the Sixth Generation. Neonates, wide-eyed and newly 
undead, cling to no myopic opinions about the nature 
of reality and have yet to fortify their emotional walls 
against the spirit world. The voice of the land speaks 
more clearly to the young, as it did to Lugoj and Velya.
Koldunic Sorcery hinges on five major paths, or ways: 
the Ways of Earth, Fire, Water, Wind and the Spirit. The 
“obscure ways,” the paths known to few koldun even in 
blood magic’s nights of prominence, have resurfaced amid 
the koldunic revival of the Final Nights. As far as the clan 
Voivode and other Tzimisce elders know, no ancient koldun 
has risen from torpor to teach these ways anew. Rather, it 
the neonates, the dwindling legacy of Caine, that have 
resurrected these dead arts. Some Fiends believe that the 
young koldun learn from the spirits themselves. 
As the number of koldun grows, their ritual repertoire grows 
as well. Noddists unearth forgotten rituals every few months, 
but even this pace fails to satisfy some of the new koldun. A few 
prodigies now work to inventing rituals of their own.
The Way of Sorrow
From Kruchina, a goddess of mourning depicted as a 
perpetually weeping woman, to Likho Odnoglazoye, the 
emaciated one-eyed hag who represented privation and 
suffering, the pantheons of Eastern Europe brim with deities 
overseeing starvation, misery, misfortune, bitterness and 
death. Whether the gods hear their names or the spirits 
merely attend their mention, a koldun who understands the 
obscure Way of Sorrow can invoke the most dismal powers 
of the divine. This way pays no heed to gods of revelry or 
plenty, only those whose attentions promise tragedy. 
Like the Way of Fire, the Way of Sorrow is governed by 
the koldun’s Manipulation, but the difficulty for each of the 
powers is the victim’s permanent Willpower rather than the 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
64
usual 4 + the level of the power. In addition, a victim may spend 
a point of Willpower to overcome a particular effect of this 
way but is still vulnerable to subsequent uses of the Discipline.
A final note: Dealing with forgotten gods requires 
propriety, especially those who govern such bleak con-
cerns. If invoked incorrectly, the Way of Sorrow turns 
on the koldun. On a botch, the Fiend suffers the effects 
of his own power as if she had scored five successes. 
MET Systems: When you invoke any level of the 
Way of Sorrow, you spend one Willpower Trait and make 
a Social Challenge against your opponent (and use the 
Koldunism Ability for retests). If your enemy successfully 
overbids against you, though, you suffer the effects for five 
full turns. Generally, if an effect lasts for a number of turns, 
it takes effect as soon as you use it and lasts based on your 
turns — that is, if you invoke a power on an enemy for one 
turn, it takes effect as soon as you finish the challenge and 
lasts until the beginning of your next turn. Count based 
on full turns, not on actions, just in case you have multiple 
actions in a turn (such as from Celerity). The opponent may 
expend one Willpower Trait to resist an emotion-influencing 
effect of the Way of Sorrow, but this does not grant immunity 
to the Discipline; that is, the target may shrug off a given 
effect, but could be attacked with it again in the next turn.
• The Frustrations of Nestrecha
Named for the goddess of grief and failure, this power 
allows the koldun to rob an opponent of his resolve. The 
koldun’s stare saps the target’s will to struggle. Although 
the victim is overcome with a resigned pessimism or feel-
ings of defeat, he can still take action to resist the koldun, 
including combat, but only in a half-hearted or fearful way. 
He musters none of his usual passion or determination.
System: The koldun’s player spends a Willpower point. 
Roll the koldun’s Manipulation + Koldunism (difficulty 
equal to the victim’s Willpower). For one turn per success, 
her target’s player can’t spend Willpower points to activate 
Disciplines or gain automatic successes. In storytelling terms, 
the victim might also lack strong motivations or convictions 
for the power’s duration (“What difference does it make?” or 
“I just don’t care anymore”). For this power to be effective, 
the koldun must make eye contact with her victim.
MET System: Make eye contact with your subject, and 
perform the usual expenditures for the Way of Sorrow (if you 
have problems with people going to ridiculous lengths to 
avoid eye contact, you should look into whatever solution 
you’ve opted for Dominate). If you best the target in a Social 
Challenge, then the victim can’t use any Willpower Traits 
to activate any Disciplines until your next turn. When your 
next turn comes, you may (as a reflexive action) expend a 
Social Trait and test again to sustain the power against the 
opponent (assuming it succeeded the first time); you don’t 
need eye contact to maintain the power in this fashion. 
Once you fail a successive Social Challenge or decide not 
to maintain the power, it ends immediately.


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
65
Oprichniki
Tzimisce took them in and used them as vassals over 
the remaining century. Surprisingly, the Oprichniki 
eventually became revenants, even though they never 
once served upon the Carpathians’ blighted soil. Fiends 
theorize the Oprichniki cursed themselves by serving 
Ivan the Terrible, though this is more fable than fact.
Even before the rise and fall of the Iron Curtain, 
the Oprichniki were a well-kept secret, especially from 
the younger Transylvanian voivodes. The Russian Fiends 
desired the Oprichniki to be their henchmen and major-
domos, whether they served as vassals, intermediaries, 
mouthpieces, bodyguards or cutthroats. As such, the 
Tzimisce train the Oprichniki from birth to fulfill a 
variety of assignments and duties. 
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Tzimisce 
are finally free of both Brujah idealists spouting proletariat 
rhetoric and the superstitious elders of the Camarilla 
casting dubious eyes toward the obviously exceptional 
skulkers in darkness maintained by the Fiends. With the 
borders relatively open, the Oprichniki remain hidden 
from the majority of the clan, serving independent Russian 
Tzimisce and those affiliated with the Oradea League. 
Disciplines: Animalism, Obfuscate, Vicissitude
Weakness: The Oprichniki drawback manifests 
more as a curse than a weakness. All revenants from this 
family, regardless their ethnic background, suffer at the 
hands of at least one ghost as per the 3-pt. Supernatural 
Flaw Haunted (see Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 302). 
Russian koldun believe the ghosts are the victims of 
Novgorod, a Russian city that the Oprichniki decimated 
in their mortal years. Ivan’s assault against Novgorod 
resulted in the murder and torture of thousands of in-
nocent civilians, a crime the revenants carry with them. 
Even if an Oprichniki finds a way through Disciplines or 
magic to rid himself of his ghost, another always takes 
its place. Thus, the curse forever follows the revenants.
The Oprichniki, the vassals of Russia’s Tzimisce, can 
trace their origins down to the year. It was 1565 when 
Ivan Grozny — Ivan the Terrible as history would later 
lament — divided his Russian kingdoms and named his 
secret militia after his principality Oprichnina. During 
those years, these mortal mercenaries served as cut-
throats to a mortal devil; only Vlad Tepes could match 
Ivan’s reign of blood. The Oprichniki, in turn, carried 
out Ivan’s orders, performing acts of terror against the 
populace, flaying anyone who complained too loudly 
and boiling the czar’s enemies. 
The Oprichniki barely survived the reign of Ivan 
the Terrible, for they suffered his ministrations as well. 
He turned them upon each other in his final years, 
and only the vilest of their lot survived. The Russian 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
66
•• The Insults of Krivda
Any Fiend worthy of the name can spit out a tell-
ing insult. But with this power, Krivda — a goddess of 
hatred and bitterness — ensures that the remark of-
fends, enraging the recipient. In the Tzimisce-Tremere 
conflicts of nights long past, koldun carried Krivda on 
their tongues, inciting their Usurper opponents to frenzy. 
They preferred to deal with angry fangs instead of cal-
culated Thaumaturgy. This is a dangerous power to use, 
but it can unbalance a physically weak opponent who 
has access to powerful Disciplines or could be used to 
embarrass a Cainite by causing him to frenzy in public. 
System: After her player spends a Willpower point, 
the koldun insults the target in the most offensive and 
humiliating way she can conceive. The koldun’s player rolls 
Manipulation + Koldunism (difficulty equal to the victim’s 
Willpower). If the roll is successful, the target flies into an 
uncontrollable rage and assaults the koldun. If the target is 
a vampire, he must immediately roll to resist frenzy (dif-
ficulty 5 + the number of successes on the activation roll).
MET System: Address your victim with some sort of 
offensive curse as you expend your Willpower and make 
your Social Challenge. You must roleplay some form of insult 
and offense — if you do not, the power fails automatically. 
Older Tzimisce might lay out positively Biblical-sounding 
curses, while young Tzimisce could flay the ears with a 
gangbanger’s lingo. If you perform appropriately and win 
the Social Challenge, your target immediately flies into 
a rage and attempts to attack you. In his next turn, your 
victim must make some sort of physical attack against you 
if at all possible. If the foe is a vampire, he may resist with a 
Self-Control Virtue Test (difficulty of 4 Traits), but if this fails, 
enters frenzy (which typically lasts at least five minutes).
••• The Weeping of Kruchina
The glare of a koldun can make someone so miserable 
that they do nothing but cry. This power does more than 
spill a few tears — it causes hysterical bawling, wailing 
and gnashing of teeth. Some depressing notion overcomes 
the victim. Vampires might mourn their lost humanitas or 
the passing of lovers who died long ago. Sometimes the 
source is more nebulous — koldun believe that it imparts 
the collected sorrow of their demesnes’ sickened soil. 
System: The koldun’s player spends a Willpower point 
and rolls the koldun’s Manipulation + Koldunism (difficulty 
equal to the victim’s Willpower). For one turn per success, 
the target is overwhelmed by intense misery and cries uncon-
trollably. Actions that require concentration are impossible 
for the power’s duration. Cainites lose a blood point each 
turn as copious amounts of vitae stream from their eyes. 
MET System: Make your Way of Sorrow test against 
one opponent; if you win, the subject is overwhelmed with 
misery and breaks into hysterical sobbing. Although the 
target might still be able to run away, defend himself or the 
like, the concentration required for initiating any Mental 
or Social Challenge becomes impossible. You may extend 
the power with additional reflexive Social expenditures and 
tests, as described for The Frustrations of Nestrecha. Each turn 
that a vampiric opponent spends under this power results in 
the loss of one Blood Trait due to copious weeping of vitae.
•••• The Misfortune of Chernogolov
With a declaration that a person is doomed or destined 
to fail, the koldun summons the attention of Chernogo-
lov — the silver-mustached god of misfortune — to her 
victim. Under Chernogolov’s unlucky gaze, he is hindered 
in everything he does. If he fails, he does so spectacularly. 
System: The koldun’s player spends a Willpower point 
and rolls the koldun’s Manipulation + Koldunism (difficulty 
equal to the victim’s Willpower). For one turn per success, 
the target automatically loses two successes on every roll 
The Quick and Dirty Guide to Creating 
Ghouls and Revenants
Here’s an abridged version of the character cre-
ation process for ghouls and revenants. For complete 
information and new Abilities, Backgrounds, Merits 
and Flaws specific to ghouls and revenants, see Ghouls: 
Fatal Addiction.
• Step One: Character Concept
Choose concept: ghoul or revenant.
(Revenants only) Choose a revenant family.
• Step Two: Select Attributes
Prioritize categories: Physical, Social, Mental 
(6/4/3).
• Step Three: Select Abilities
Prioritize categories: Talents, Skills, Knowledges 
(11/7/4).
• Step Four: Select Advantages
Choose Backgrounds (5), Disciplines (Potence 
1 and one dot in another Discipline, see below) and 
Virtues (7, or 5 for Sabbat ghouls and revenants).
Ghouls: Choose a Discipline known to your domitor.
Revenants: Choose a family Discipline.
• Step Five: Finishing Touches
Record Virtues, Humanity/Path of Enlighten-
ment, Willpower and Blood Pool.
Spend freebie points (21), all freebie costs are the 
same as for vampire characters except that Disciplines 
cost 10 per dot.
Note: Revenants produce one point of vitae per 
evening. This blood cannot create vampires, ghouls 
or blood bonds. Revenants have a maximum blood 
pool of 10, plus one for every full century she’s existed.


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
67
he attempts. Botches experienced under the effects of the 
Misfortune of Chernogolov should be especially disastrous. 
MET System: When you call down The Misfortune 
of Chernogolov and speak an appropriately doom-saying 
phrase, your opponent immediately suffers a two Trait 
penalty on initiating and resolving any challenge. Thus, 
the enemy must risk at least three Traits just to enter any 
challenge and loses every additional Trait risked on a 
failed challenge. Furthermore, the subject is more likely 
to fail any test due to the penalty Traits. This is cumula-
tive with injury or other penalties that inflict the victim.
••••• The Starvation of Marena
By invoking the wife of Kupala, the koldun summons 
the cold and starvation that is the domain of Marena. A 
frosty gale blasts the victim and leaves him emaciated as if 
he had just survived the coldest of winters. The frostbitten 
and starving victim clings to (un)life, usually in no condi-
tion to contradict the koldun. The cold symbolizes of the 
passage of time in harsh conditions. 
System: The koldun’s player spends a Willpower point 
and rolls her Manipulation + Koldunism (difficulty equal 
to the target’s Willpower). For each success, the victim 
takes two levels of bashing damage that can be soaked 
normally. In addition to this damage, vampires lose one 
blood point for each of the koldun’s successes — healthy 
prey was scarce in the Eastern European winter. 
MET System: : Invoke the name of Marena, and 
make your Way of Sorrow challenge against the victim. If 
you win, the subject suffers two levels of bashing damage 
(one in compressed scale) and, if a vampire, loses one Blood 
Trait. Additionally, if you have more Social Traits than the 
opponent, your effect may be more lethal: For every two 
current Social Traits that you have over your victim, score 
another two health levels of damage and one Blood Trait 
loss. (If your opponent has more Social Traits than you, 
there is no penalty other than the possibility of an overbid.)
Enough, Methuselah. I have said enough. I leave 
you to the fate the modern nights hold in store.
Other Disciplines 
Troilus Cressida:
Oslo is a shithole. After receiving your letter, Methuselah 
wished to reply. He dictated, I translated. I’ve cleaned up his idiom 
where I could. His fangs are so dull, sire…. Please send for us soon.
—Ezra
Descendant:
In the fulfillment of your Blooded duties to me, you 
have denied this youngest generation their due. You wrote 
of them with such contempt. I have moved among them 
and witnessed their ways. They are hardly the “Mongols” 
you describe. I have met doctors and men of science, a pack 
priestess who spoke until the Sabbat’s cause sang through 
my veins — though I am one this jealous generation would 
destroy, had I revealed my age. Even your Ezra has impressed 
me. Its craft would make the Black-Churchers jealous. 
But such is the extent of my generosity with others. 
I shall be far less generous with you. You treated me con-
temptibly as well and wrote in such familiar tones. Do you 
think this is my first time to awaken from a long sleep? For 
this shabby treatment, I keep your childe. Next time, I will 
feed you to it piece by piece. Those who suffer undeath 
after my Blood should treat me well.
You have many things to do, grandchilde. I have always 
known that a Cainite’s years are measured in the mastery 
of his Disciplines. Mortal vogue means nothing to those 
who can walk the spirit world and subdue the hunger of 
wolves. You have responsibilities as my descendant. First 
among them is to be worthy of my Blood. Until your 
mastery matches my own, you would do well to fear me. 
In answer to your question, I looked to Hell.
— Methuselah
Animalism
When Tzimisce became master of the beasts, it be-
came master of the land. So do not greet the animals like 
a fellow animal. Greet them like a king coming to court. 
So too the Beast Within, which every Tzimisce should 
master. I have read of your Paths of Enlightenment and 
find them too demanding for most of our kind. What the 
few can accomplish with obscure philosophies, the many 
can accomplish with this gift from Caine. 
Our own Animalism eases truck with peasants. Those 
who have practiced it are soothing to animals, and such 
soothing is the stuff of mortal terror. Animals are inconsistent 
things, accustomed to fright at anything because that is their 
nature. Even a child can scare a cat. Far more terrible is the 
man who bends down so the wolf can lick his face. Mortals 
are more consistent. If no animal avails itself, find the haughty 
man among them, the one that mortals fear, and Cow the 
Beast within him. His entire village becomes docile as well.
Cainites do not bow so easily, and such power is useless 
against them. If you can, call beasts to your aid, but mind 
that wolves do not scare them. Far better to escape in the 
flurry of 100 birds and leave the wolves to harry trespassers 
away from your lands.
Ezra tells me that you seldom leave your haven. As it 
tells me, your many mouths leave you unpalatable to the 
mortals you hide among. Then use the beasts to be your 
eyes in the living world. Ravens are clever observers, and 
any dog can follow a scent. If you can Subsume the Spirit 
of the creature, then you will have no need to extrapolate 
from the simple reports that animals by nature give. But 
when you ride a beast, ensure that you have ghouls or 
childer to watch your slumbering form. Ensure that they 
do not want to taste your blood.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
68
Auspex
When Tzimisce learned to see the world as it is, he 
became a seer worthy of Caine’s notice. The blood of 
the greatest prognosticator sustains every Tzimisce, and 
when last I awoke, those of us with the sight were given 
to visions as our Founder was.
Our ability to see is what lends us advantage against the 
lesser clans. You will understand that it is the greatest gift Caine 
bestowed on us the first time a shadowed Nosferatu intrudes 
in your manse. And disturbances in the secret forces around 
us confuse Toreadors and Malkavians. Their brains are awash 
in madness, and the swirls of secret forces overwhelm them. A 
Tzimisce, naturally focused and aware by Blood, can use this 
confusion for escape or a final blow cheaply earned. Beware 
that Tremere are similarly focused and aware.
Ezra has told me that your lab overflows with experi-
ments in progress. If so, you have no doubt already realized 
the benefits of sensitivity. One needs to feel the texture 
of one’s sculpture’s skin and hear the discordant pitches 
of a tortured scream. Likewise, any gaps in your learning 
can be filled over time by scouring the thoughts of those 
who already know the methods, adding their knowledge 
to your own. Embolden your will — most things worth 
knowing reside in the heads of Cainites.
Long, long ago, before my first slumber, the childer 
of Tzimisce’s childer held duels among themselves in the 
spirit world, wagering their own blood on the outcome. 
I have always regretted that this practice did not endure 
beyond the rise of the Muslims. Although too few possess 
such mastery, the spirit walker must be prepared to answer 
when a Tremere comes slicing after his silver chord.
Vicissitude
When Tzimisce achieved enlightenment, it became 
the vitae that now rests in your veins.
So don’t be sloppy with it. Our clan alone was gifted 
with this power because Tzimisce hands are never un-
trained. We alone possess the resolve to move beyond 
competence to mastery. But one must be fast as well as 
capable — a crude rending of flesh is a distraction, a rib 
through the heart is as good as Final Death.
In these modern nights, even the youngest has access to 
the most complete anatomical understanding; though our 
clan sometimes learned such things long before the mortals 
and understood some truths that mortal science is not yet of 
a mind to accept, the crafters of my early times lacked this 
precision. They understood how muscle attached to bone, but 
even I gawk at the simple intricacy of the your lately discovered 
“nervous system.” In this regard, I almost envy the young….
On to a more practical matter: Vicissitude is the best whip 
that a domitor can brandish at his ghouls. The threat of altera-
tion suffices for most. If some offense requires punishment, mar 
the vain and shorten men of stature. When a ghoul persists in 
its attachment to the world of mortals, your craft can render 
him a pariah among his kind. Likewise, a ghoul that is too 
weak to tote your bales, remold him for strength. In such a 
way is the master kept happy and the servant allowed to live.
I have survived through times when I had Tremere 
blood in my mouth every night. In those nights, the 
fearsome fared better than the beautiful. Serrated bones 
to saw through the chest into the heart and fat padding 
the vulnerable places looked unseemly, though I owe my 
continued existence to their use. But I do not understand 
the modern enchantment with twisted monstrosity. I have 
seen creatures of such beauty that they inspire worship 
among mortals. Do you realize the glory of perfect sym-
metry? The best Tzimisce find symmetry of another sort 
— forms built for both beauty and destruction. But when 
one has mastered the zulo form, one can err toward beauty.
No matter how prepared for love or war, Tzimisce 
should strive to become simple blood. If a Tzimisce can 
achieve the bloodform, no stake can pierce his heart. The 
smallest crack is an open doorway. A Tzimisce trapped or 
imprisoned for weeks can sustain himself on his own form. 
To wash over a mortal can inspire a whimpering panic, if 
not death from sudden fright. A Cainite likely frenzies.
The young ones I have spoken with tell me that “V-
positive Licks” develop the Eldest’s own reliance upon 
his “ego.” I prefer my own terms: How much greater is 
the Cainite who bears an Antediluvian!
Get to work, Troilus Cressida. The time approaches 
when I come to test you myself.
Discipline Powers
Ecstatic Agony (Vicissitude Level Six)
For a Tzimisce who can experience Ecstatic Agony, 
pain becomes power. The more wounded he is, the more 
potent he becomes. The Fiend delights in every slash, punch, 
bullet or burn and channels his pain into physical prowess 
or incredible displays of Caine’s Gifts.
System: After the player spends two Willpower points, 
the character becomes even more powerful when experienc-
ing pain. For all non-reflexive actions involving a Physical 
Attribute or use of a Discipline, add his wound penalties to 
the dice pool. For example, add two dice at the Wounded 
health level. As the character heals, this bonus wanes. Treat 
Incapacitated and Final Death normally. This power lasts 
for one scene.
MET System: You must spend a Willpower Trait to 
activate Ecstatic Agony. For the duration of a scene, you gain 
two bonus Physical Traits for each health level of damage you 
suffer in combat; you can raise your Physical Trait pool above 
your normal generation limit. Heal yourself, and you will lose 
any and all bonus Traits earned through this power. If you 
possess any ability to ignore the wound penalties you receive 
in combat, you gain no added benefit from Ecstatic Agony.


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
69
Eye of the Szlachta (Animalism Level Six)
Any Fiend who’s been around for a while knows how 
to possess a lowly beast, but a few can ride any ghoul who 
shares their blood. By locking eyes with the ghoul (and 
yes, both parties must have eyes), the Fiend can transfer 
his soul into the creature, while his body falls into a state 
resembling torpor. Although some Tzimisce consider such 
intimate contact with their servants distasteful, sometimes 
it’s necessary to calm a rampaging vozhd in a disposable ves-
sel or to “fleshride” a ghoul who can speak and open doors. 
System: Use the system for the Animalism 4 power 
Subsume the Spirit (Vampire: The Masquerade, pp. 
148-149).
MET System: You can impose your indomitable will 
onto one of your ghouls by spending a Willpower Trait, 
thereby merging the two souls together. Each Mental 
Trait you spend increases the strength of this connection, 
lasting for one night.
1 Trait	
Simple Possession
2 Traits	
Can use Auspex
3 Traits	
Can also use Animalism and Dominate
4 Traits	
Can also use Vicissitude 
5 Traits	
Can also use Koldunic Sorcery, Necromancy 
	
and Thaumaturgy
Merits and Flaws
Whether Tzimisce like it or not, they carry a germ 
of the gestating Antediluvian inside them. Between it, 
Vicissitude and their often-strange habits, there are unique 
Merits and Flaws to personalize each Fiend. As always, 
this section is entirely optional and pending Storyteller 
approval. This information is not gospel or dogma.
Pain Tolerance (2-pt. Physical Merit)
Maybe you’ve deadened your nerves through Vicissitude. 
Maybe you’re a tough bastard. Maybe it turns you on. Regard-
less, you ignore one-dice wound penalties. That is, at Hurt 
or Injured, you suffer no wound penalties. You still suffer full 
wound penalties at Wounded and below. You must have a 
Conviction or Courage rating of 3 or more to take this Merit. 
If you possess the advanced Vicissitude power Ecstatic Agony, 
you gain no additional dice until you are at least Wounded; 
your indifference to pain deprives you of its power.
MET System: Your body is hardened to pain, possibly 
because your nerves just don’t convey these adverse feelings 
or simply because you’ve experienced suffering and torture 
beyond comprehension and it has pushed you beyond the 
average tolerance. As such, you ignore penalties at the Bruised 
Health levels. 
Dracon’s Temperament 
(3-pt. Mental Merit)
Taking the notion of Azhi Dahaka to new levels, you’ve 
emulated the permutable nature of change and evolution 
into your very psyche. Like the protean Dracon, you are a 
whirlwind of temperaments. Unlike multiple personalities, 
which gives you more than one identity, you are the same 
person but with different and changing Natures. Essentially, 
you either have no anchored sense of self, or you’re so mu-
table that you can be anybody. At the beginning of each 
story, until its conclusion, you may choose one Personality 
Archetype to function as your Nature. This doesn’t change 
your identity; it simply alters the way you perceive situations 
and how you deal with others. You also regain Willpower 
according to your new Nature and may be affected by other 
effects or Discipline powers as per your new Nature as well.
MET System: At the start of each game session, you 
may choose a new Nature. However, the Storyteller may, 
at his leisure, call you over and swap your present Nature 
for a new one to act out. 
Haven Affinity 
(3-pt. Supernatural Merit)
Caine’s curse resonates strongly in your bones, but it 
possesses a proven advantage. You are connected to the 
soil of your prime haven, granting you an extra die to all 
dice pools when you operate there. It also acts as a mystic 
beacon to you, allowing you to home in on its location 
with a standard Perception + Survival roll (difficulty 6), 
+1 difficulty when a state or country separates you; +2 
if you’re halfway across the globe. This applies only to 
your prime haven and to none of your auxiliary shelters.
MET System: You must first spend a Mental Trait and 
engage in a Simple Challenge with the Storyteller. If suc-
cessful, you will earn a bonus Trait in all challenges initiated 
within your haven, as well as feeling a spiritual tug from the 
direction of your haven. If your haven is a goodly distance 
away, such as in another city, then the Storyteller may decide 
to have you make a Hard Test and spend a Willpower Trait 
rather then a Mental Trait, to reflect the strong mystical 
connection you share with your distant prime haven. 
Revenant Disciplines 
(3-pt. Supernatural Merit)
The ties to your revenant family stayed with you well 
past the Embrace. As such, the Disciplines that were innate 
to you as a ghoul have remained so as Cainite. At character 
creation, select the ghoul family from which you hail. In-
stead of the Tzimisce’s standard complement of Animalism, 
Auspex and Vicissitude, you instead draw from your three 
family Disciplines for your starting allocation (though you 
may buy other Disciplines with freebies, as normal). Also, you 
learn your family Disciplines at the cost of a clan Discipline. 
It’s either or, however, meaning you cannot buy both the 
Tzimisce and family powers at clan cost unless they both 
share a particular ability like Vicissitude. 
MET System: You must first clear the heritage of your 
revenant family with the Storyteller before purchasing this 
merit. With Storyteller approval you may, at character 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
70
creation, take the three innate Disciplines of your revenant 
family instead of those of the Tzimisce. Any Discipline not 
of your revenant family, even ones passed on through the 
blood of the Tzimisce, must be purchased as is out of clan. 
Ancestral Soil Dependence 
(2-pt. Supernatural Flaw)
Dependence on their native soil hampered the Tzi-
misce’s flight from Eastern Europe. Even a few childer sired 
elsewhere required the soil of a homeland they had never 
visited, making them particularly vulnerable to enemies 
who knew of this weakness. In the modern nights, rapid 
transportation makes such a threat much less severe, but 
even childer sired generations after their ancestors relocated 
occasionally manifest this Flaw. 
The will of the spirits from the ancestral Tzimisce 
homeland weighs heavy on your blood — soil from a place 
important to you as a mortal won’t do. You actually need 
two handfuls of the tainted Eastern European soil of the 
Tzimisce homeland. Ancestral Soil Dependence most com-
monly manifests in the childer of koldun and the branch of 
the clan thought to be descended from Yorak. Characters 
Embraced in Eastern Europe can’t take this Flaw (they’re 
already dependant on the local soil).
MET System: Your dependence on the magically rich 
and diseased soil of Eastern Europe is so severe that, until you 
are in possession of two handfuls, you will suffer a two-Trait 
penalty to all challenges. 
Scarface (2- to 4-pt. Physical Flaw)
You’re a walking mess of scars. Although you heal 
damage with Cainite efficiency, the manner in which you 
do so is all too human. For some reason, the regenerating 
flesh returns as scar tissue. Vicissitude doesn’t help; in fact, it 
aggravates your condition with stretch marks and cicatrices 
anywhere your skin breaks. While this doesn’t hamper you 
physically, it does affect your interactions with other people. 
For 2 points, all Social roll difficulties increase by one.
If you purchase Scarface as a 3-point Flaw, your face and 
body are so horribly blemished that your Appearance rating 
can never exceed 2. This is in addition to the limitations 
mentioned previously. As a 4-point Flaw, the swath of scars is 
thick enough to hinder your actions through skin-resistance. 
All Dexterity roll difficulties also increase by one, in addition 
to the other penalties this Flaw imposes at lesser levels. You 
can ignore this penalty for one specific action by taking one 
level of (unsoakable) bashing damage; essentially, you’re 
tearing the scar tissue for greater range of motion. Once you 
heal that damage, however, the penalty returns.
MET System: As a 2-point Flaw, you suffer the negative 
Social Traits: Scarface x2 that must be open and notoriously 
presented, on a badge or post-it. As a 3-point Flaw, your 
Social Traits may never exceed five Traits, and as a 4-point 
Flaw, you suffer the negatives of the lesser levels, as well 
as suffering a one Trait penalty to all Physical Challenges.
Revenant Weakness 
(3-pt. Physical Flaw)
You were once part of a revenant family. Following the 
Embrace, you suffered the double-whammy of your clan’s 
weakness and your revenant family’s limitation; whether it’s 
the Bratovitch’s propensity to fly into a rage, the Grimaldi’s 
blood bond to the Sabbat, the Obertus’ instability or the 
Zantosa’s weak will. The Storyteller might also let you 
manifest a weakness from a lost or destroyed revenant line. 
This could add mystery to your background and allow for 
a bit of genealogical detective work.
MET System: As stated above, you suffer both the 
weakness of your clan as well as your revenant family limita-
tion. You should work with your Storyteller if you decide to 
manifest a limitation of a lost or destroyed revenant line.
Consumption (5-pt. Physical Flaw)
Portions of the Antediluvian are not only within you, 
they’re active and act like a cancer that devours you from the 
inside out. Your very blood is wrought with a corrosive, flesh-
eating bacteria. At the beginning of each evening, you suffer 
one health level of bashing damage that cannot be soaked nor 
healed with blood. The only way to counteract the effect is by 
ingesting one-tenth of your body-weight in flesh to supplement 
your depleted carcass. Whether you kill and devour the skin 
from humans or raid the biohazard containers of liposuction 
clinics for siphoned fat, you need your ration of human flesh 
in order to survive. If you try and ingest this macabre meal 
before damage is done, you’ll simply vomit it out like any other 
food — this does not impart the benefits of the Eat Food Merit.
MET System: When testing for blood at the begin-
ning of each game session, you suffer a level of bashing 
damage that can only be healed by ingesting mortal flesh, 
enough to replace the fleshy tissue depleted from your body 
as a result of this Flaw. You cannot pre-empt the effects 
of this corrosive bacteria by ingesting human flesh before 
the damage is taken; without the Eat Food Merit you will 
vomit out this flesh like any other food.  
Sick in the Head
The unlifestyle of the Tzimisce puts them at high risk 
of developing various derangements. Botched experiments, 
repeated indulgence of their perversions and the intensity 
of their Embraces conspire to twist their personalities. 
When the Storyteller determines that a Tzimisce should 
gain a new derangement, consider the lists in Vampire: 
The Masquerade (pp. 222-224), Guide to the Sabbat (pp. 
161-163) and the list included below. If the Storyteller 
allows, many derangements from Clanbook: Malkavian 
or even Clanbook: Tremere might also be appropriate. 
Agoraphobia
Agoraphobia literally means “fear of open spaces,” but 
the translation is misleading. Called “Mad Scientist’s Disease” 
by younger Tzimisce, agoraphobia manifests as an extreme 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
71
The Naming of Fiends
Here’s a list of some typical Slavic names, 
along with a few ideas for surnames, many of them 
Romanian. When naming Fiends, keep in mind 
that the higher the generation, the less likely the 
Tzimisce was born in Eastern Europe. 
Males: Andrej, Boleslaus, Conrad, Dimitri, 
Florian, Ivan, Jan, Karel, Ladislas, Marika, Niko-
las, Orel, Pavel, Rurik, Sandor, Tibor, Volodya, 
Wenceslaus, Zarek
Females: Chessa, Dannika, Fanya, Gavrilla, 
Hana, Ikla, Jan, Katarina, Ljudumilu, Miesha, 
Nadezhda, Radilu, Sonja, Terezia, Valeska, Zorana
Surnames: Cerveni, Constantinescu, Cunescu, 
Diaconescu, Iliescu, Ionescu, Manolescu, Marko, 
Mohora, Patriciu, Roman, Tabara, Vasile 
aversion to places the sufferer fears he will panic. Sometimes 
the derangement is attached to a few locations, but generalized 
agoraphobics avoid situations in which escape is difficult (an 
airplane at 30,000 feet) or embarrassing (making a speech). 
Agoraphobics don’t volunteer for situations that they 
fear might cause anxiety. Unless supernaturally compelled, 
agoraphobic vampires must succeed on a Willpower roll 
(difficulty 8) to leave their havens each evening and must 
spend a point of Willpower to enter a situation from which 
escape will be difficult or embarrassing. If the character fails 
any Willpower roll during a scene that takes place in such a 
situation, the character must spend a point of Willpower or 
flee. Vampires can ignore these constraints while in frenzy. 
The territorial nature of many Tzimisce makes this 
derangement relatively common within the clan. No doubt 
the world is scattered with at least a handful of agoraphobic 
Cainites driven into torpor from lack of blood.
Acute Sanguinary Aversion
This derangement, unique to the undead, involves a 
persistent fear that any source of vitae is dangerous. Expla-
nations vary   some vampires fear drugged or contaminated 
blood, the wrath of God or the presence of a blood-borne 
Antediluvian. Regardless, unless the vampire is frenzied, 
the player must succeed on a Willpower roll (difficulty 8) 
each time he feeds. Willpower cannot be spent on this roll, 
and a botch indicates that the vampire is so revolted by the 
prospect of feeding that he vomits up half of his blood pool. 
Acute sanguinary aversion usually leads to a starve-and-
frenzy pattern, with the vampire avoiding feeding until he 
loses control. Instead, the vampire might develop highly 
ritualized feeding methods that involve obsession with 
repeated, largely arbitrary behaviors that must be observed 
before the Kiss is performed on a particular source of vitae. 
He might read a passage from the Book of Nod before 
feeding or drink blood only from a particular individual.
In any case, if the feeding results in a Conscience 
or Conviction roll, increase the difficulty by one. 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
72
Combination Disciplines
and change five different facets with five Willpower 
Traits. The changes made to your aura are undetect-
able in Auspex Challenges; the appearances of Soul 
Decoration last for a night. 
You may also manipulate the auras of other Kindred 
or kine by spending a Willpower Trait and succeeding 
in a Static Willpower Challenge.
 In MET, this power costs 6 Experience Traits.
Pater Szlachta (Protean ••••, 
Vicissitude •••)
Some Tzimisce combine the Protean power to 
turn into an animal with the possibilities of Vicis-
situde. Forces of chaotic change surge through the 
Fiend’s body, forces he must direct while experiencing 
bone-breaking pain. When the Tzimisce can bear 
the strain no longer, the body settles into the Pater 
Szlachta or bogatyri form — so named by Tzimisce 
anarchs to insult either their servants or the “elder 
valiant champions” who served the anarchs’ sires. 
In the modern nights, this power is still known to 
a few Tzimisce, who sometimes use it in contests of 
improvisational fleshcrafting.
System: Spend two blood points and roll Stamina 
+ Medicine (difficulty 7). The change takes (5 - the 
number of successes) turns to complete, during which 
the Tzimisce can only howl, drool vitae and writhe. The 
character can rearrange his Physical Attributes (one 
dot per success), but no Attribute can exceed the limit 
imposed by generation. The player can describe what 
sort of alterations he wants to make, but the process is 
difficult to control. In the end, the Storyteller is the final 
arbiter, choosing one physical state for the character in 
bogatyri form or certain Vicissitude modifications such 
as bone spikes, spine-saws, etc. Botches earn whatever 
physical Flaws the Storyteller chooses, maybe perma-
nent ones. The change lasts for one scene. 
Example: The player of Csikos Thesz spends two blood 
points and earns four successes on his Stamina + Medicine 
roll. Csikos Thesz spends one turn changing into the bogatyri 
form, during which he struggles to rearrange his muscles and 
body fat to better absorb impacts; he also concentrates on 
drawing forth bone mass to his knuckles, visualizing them 
coming to thick, knobby studs. After the change, his player can 
rearrange four dots of Physical Attributes. Before the change, 
Csikos had Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2. He moves 
a point from Strength and two from Dexterity into Stamina 
and doesn’t use the fourth success, leaving him with Strength 
2, Dexterity 1, Stamina 5. Since four successes indicate an 
“exceptional success,” the Storyteller decides that Csikos has 
grown bony nodules on his knuckles that inflict lethal damage. 
Some Cainites competent with two or more 
Disciplines can combine them to create new powers. 
Tzimisce rarely learn these techniques spontaneously. 
Koldun, innovative Metamorphosists and survivors of 
the bitter rivalry between the Tremere and Tzimisce — 
and their childer, too, perhaps — might be convinced 
to serve as teachers.
Soul Decoration (Auspex ••, Obfuscate 
••, Vicissitude •••)
The aura is a byproduct of the body. Change the 
body, change the soul. The body’s experiences can be 
summed up in the aura, but this phenomenon is the 
product of physical forces. By fleshcrafting certain 
locations on the body — chakras, joints, erogenous 
zones — a Tzimisce with this power can “paint” what-
ever aura he chooses. Auras summarize the individual, 
revealing mood, the stain of diablerie and the Curse 
of Caine. When under the gaze of perceptive eyes, 
sometimes it’s better to conceal such things.
System: After spending three Willpower points, 
the player rolls her character’s Perception + Empa-
thy. The difficulty of this roll is equal to the subject’s 
Willpower — stronger personalities resist alteration. 
The number of successes indicates how completely the 
aura can be changed to the Tzimisce’s specifications.
1 success	
Can alter shades (pale or bright)
2 successes	
Can alter the main color
3 successes	
Can alter psychological state (frenzied, 
psychotic, etc.)
4 successes	
Can conceal or falsify diablerie and 
magic use
5 successes	
Can conceal or falsify natural condi-
tion (vampire, shapeshifter, ghost, 
etc.)
The deception lasts one night per success. Dur-
ing this time, the aura doesn’t change to reflect new 
conditions in its owner. 
Keep in mind that these are changes only to the 
aura, not the subject herself. At the Storyteller’s discre-
tion, the subject may feel token emotions to match her 
new colors. She might feel somewhat distrustful if her 
aura was painted light green, for instance.
This power costs 20 experience points.
MET System: You must spend a Willpower Trait 
in order to alter the color of your own aura. Each 
Willpower Trait you spend in this feat of deception 
grants more control over the conditions of your aura. 
You can change one aspect of your aura when spending 
a single Willpower Trait, whereas you can go all out 


Chapter Two: Ego and Evolution
73
This power costs 18 experience points.
MET System: Your body increases its mass 
for every Blood Trait you spend. You must first 
enter into a Static Physical Challenge against the 
Storyteller, and if successful, you can increase your 
Physical Trait category by two Traits for every Blood 
Trait consumed in this fashion, possibly exceeding 
the limits of your Generation. 
Birth the Vozhd 
(Vicissitude ••••• •, 
Animalism ••••• •)
While the creation of vozhd was once the sole 
province of koldunic ritual, Tzimisce who have 
mastered both fleshcrafting and control of the Beast 
Within can build vozhd as well. The ingredients: 
at least 15 ghouls (20 or more is preferable). First, 
the Tzimisce fleshcrafts the ghouls together, forg-
ing the bodies into a single entity. The Fiend feeds 
the corporate mess a concoction of the blood of the 
ghouls, creating something like a Vinculum among 
them. This bond in place, the Fiend uses Animalism 
to coalesce the Beasts of the ghouls into one insane 
and imperfect Beast that drives the vozhd to crush or 
devour everything in sight. 
System: After the Tzimisce collects enough 
ghouls, roll her Intelligence + Body Craft (difficulty 
10) to determine how quickly she constructs and 
“masters” the vozhd. With one success, the process 
takes as long as a year; with five, it might only take 
a month. The Fiend can make further Vicissitude 
modifications to his creation (raise the difficulties of 
such rolls by 2 to reflect the size and complexity of the 
creature). Botches result in a nonviable biohazard or a 
frenzied, uncontrollable vozhd. Also note that vozhd, 
driven by their flawed Beasts, are notoriously difficult 
to control. Raise the difficulty of all Animalism rolls 
involving a vozhd by three. 
This power costs 36 experience points.
MET System: You must first enter into a Hard 
Test against the Storyteller, and should you lose this 
test, you must wait a year before once again attempt-
ing to Birth the Vozhd, representing your lack of the 
physical and spiritual strength that is required for this 
power. It is possible to reduce this waiting period, 
by spending a Willpower Trait for each month you 
wish to decrease from the year in waiting. Once these 
Willpower Traits have been spent toward the creation 
of a vozhd, you cannot spend them again until your 
waiting period has concluded. While a Tzimisce in 
a live-action game may be capable of doing this sort 
of thing, it is very hard to simulate in that medium. 
Live-action Storytellers are encouraged to disallow this 
power and use vozhd only when the story requires it.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
74


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
75
 Chapter Three: 
Among Fiends
“The throat must be mine,” said the Count. “I claim the throat as my privilege.”
“It should be mine,” muttered August. “I am the eldest and it is long since I fed. Yet I am content to have the breast.”
“The legs are mine,” croaked the third monster. “Legs are always full of rich red blood.”
— Frederick Cowles, “The Vampire of Kaldenstein”
Velya—
A Modest Proposal: Let’s sheath the Sword of Caine, 
awaken our Father and be done with the whole thing. No, 
I have not defected to the Camarilla (hiding in fear does not 
suit a diplomat). Rather, I have just had the most unpleas-
ant interaction with a fresh pack that supposedly shares our 
blood. The fire in their bellies betrayed them as Tzimisce, 
and I am glad that the Blood hasn’t thinned to nothing just 
yet. But their fire blazes unchecked. Where is the discipline, 
the measured ingenuity that made us sovereigns of the Old 
World? Where is the inclination to greatness? Where is the 
respect? The voivodes are gone, and I fear that we shall 
never see their like again. Have we wasted too much of the 
old blood on sieges and Monomacy? These young ones, I 
do not understand them. This newest generation lacks… 
protocol. Although I cherish the ideals of our sect, it tries me 
to uphold them in the face of this modern impetuousness.
Were we like these upstarts, when we were young? I 
do not remember.
Forgive my fit. Our correspondence has been a comfort 
to me during my travels abroad, and I must apologize for the 
lateness of this letter. Sadly, I was preoccupied with some 
confusion within the consistory. Our august regent is acting 
more like herself than ever and persists in refusing me an 
audience. How fare the Cardinals of the Land Beyond the 
Forest? Have you learned anything more about the incident 
at Cernavoda? Send Elaine my love.
—Your Homesick Radu
Note: Template characters have been created using the 
Sabbat character generation rules from the Guide to the Sabbat.


Clanbook: Tzimisce
76
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Architect
DEMEANOR: Director
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Lord of the Ghetto
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Contacts
Fame
Generation
Resources
Retainers
Animalism
Auspex
Vicissitude
Lord of the Ghetto
Quote: You are no longer welcome here, but the time 
for you to leave safely has passed. I would not be voivode 
very long if my subjects saw me as merciful. 
Prelude: Your pack formed like the packs of old, 
driven from your native land by Tremere Usurpers. But 
this new country is not so different from your home. 
Even in the modern metropolis, the peasants understand 
authority. Your impoverished demesne isn’t much to 
look at — nine city blocks of high-rise projects, decrepit 
shotgun houses, graffiti, drug dealers and gang warfare. 
Still, you have chosen it as your domain, and it suits 
your needs. Your neighborhood is not some suburb full 
of coddled buffoons. The people are smart here — they 
still respect a monarch. But the rulers of this land have 
discarded them. Yours is the only power they know.
After your Embrace, your sire exposed 
your notions of democracy as nothing 
more than a passing mortal vogue. 
Power is that which endures, he said. 
Ironic that he came to such a bad 
end. His lax governance proved his 
Final Death. In his last nights, Usurp-
ers walked among his very subjects. A 
lesson learned — even in this thoroughly 
modern land, which worships freedom and 
convenience. You will not be so foolish.
Concept: You run the 
ghetto like a Transylva-
nian voivode. While only 
a few of your “subjects” 
— gangbangers and ad-
dicts, mostly — realize 
your true nature, almost 
everyone in the neigh-
borhood knows you as 
the majestic gentleman 
who walks the streets 
after dark, halting at 
porches to admonish 
the children to behave 
morally, strolling by 
the block parties to 
give an approving nod. 
Your subjects fear you, 
but even those who 
suspect you are more 
than you seem find your 
presence comforting. You’ve 
made an example of several 
trespassers, and the streets are safer for 
your passing. 
Roleplaying Hints: You are 
definitely old school. Though 
you consider yourself a 
patient and cultured ruler, 
you expect your authority 
to be recognized, par-
ticularly within your own 
demesne. Despite your 
neofeudalist leanings, you 
realize that the children 
of Caine cannot rule as 
openly as in nights past. 
Let your power speak 
for itself. 
E q u i p m e n t : 
Antiquated aristo-
cratic clothing, heavy 
overcoat, liberated 
switchblade, flowers 
given to you by 
neighborhood 
children


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
77
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Lord of the Ghetto
Tzimisce
11th
Architect
Director
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
Auspex 2 (Heightened Senses, 
Aura Perception)
 Vicissitude (Malleable Visage)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
Expressive x 2
Ingratiating
Dedicated
Disciplined
Rational
Shrewd
Academics
Empathy
Etiquette
Nimble
Rugged
Tough
Allies x 2
Contacts x 2
Fame x 1
Generation x 2
Vigilant
Occult
Streetwise
Subterfuge
 Persuasive x 2
Witty
Resources x 1
Retainers x 1
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Siamese Twin
Tzimisce
10th
Eye of the Storm
Pedagogue
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception, Spirit‛s Touch,
 Telepathy, Psychic Projection)
 Potence (Prowess)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling x 2
Expressive
Alert
Attentive
Creative
Disciplined
Academics
Crafts
Empathy
Dexterous x 2
Energetic
Steady
Generation x 3
Resources x 2
Tough
Observant x 2
Occult x 2
Subterfuge 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
78
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Eye of the Storm
DEMEANOR: Pedagogue
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 10th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Siamese Twin
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Resources
Sabbat Status
Auspex
Potence
The Siamese Twin
Quote: Forgive me. I would sustain myself some other 
way, if I could. But yes, this will probably kill you — I’m 
feeding for two.
Prelude: Your parents balked when the man from 
the circus wanted to take you on the road. You and your 
brother, inextricable since birth, were their beloved 
children, not sideshow freaks. “People are curious,” the 
circus man said. “Your sons can teach them about the 
bizarre oddities of nature.” Your father rejected the deal 
by reaching for his shotgun.
Maybe the man from the circus was right. Your sire 
was certainly curious the night she met you. You thought 
she’d never stop asking questions. What does it feel like? 
Did you ever have any privacy? Does it make sex awkward? 
You’d been asked these questions all your life, and you 
enjoyed the attention of someone who seemed sincerely 
curious. Then she started asking questions you didn’t quite 
understand. She threw around the word “embrace” a lot 
and you thought 
maybe she was 
coming on 
to you. But 
you really 
didn’t see 
how she 
intend-
ed to “embrace” one of you without “embracing” the other.
Sometimes you miss your brother. You’re dead yourself, 
but he’s really dead. At least, you’re pretty sure he’s dead.
Concept: Her curiosity satisfied, your sire abandoned 
you to the night. But you had the — luck? misfortune? — of 
being Embraced in a Sabbat city. A nomadic pack thought 
you looked “really fucking weird,” so, of course, they invited 
you to join the Vaulderie. For now, you stick with your new 
pack — who else would believe your story? You used to take 
a lot of shit from your packmates, and sometimes you still 
do, but it seems like they admire your ability to perceive 
auras and read minds. Pretty soon, they say, you’ll hardly 
need a body at all.
Roleplaying Hints: Adjusting to existence without your 
brother has been almost as difficult as adjusting to unlife 
itself; to you, the two concepts are intertwined. While you 
had a few hard-won friends in life, the local Cainites don’t 
respond to your simple honesty. That is, until you frankly tell 
them what you think of what they’re thinking. Recently, you’ve 
experimented with the fleshcrafting abilities of your clan, but 
you’re not ready to part with your brother just yet.
Equipment: Specially tailored clothing, random bric-
a-brac from your mortal days to which you’ve developed 
a sentimental attachment


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
79
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Sadist
DEMEANOR: Autocrat
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Most Eugenic
Baby, 1929
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Herd
Resources
Auspex
Vicissitude
Power & Inner Voice
Most Eugenic Baby, 1929
Quote: I’m the seed Mendel should’ve studied.
Prelude: They scoured your family tree for alcohol-
ics, imbeciles, syphilitics and Negroes, and, finding none, 
awarded your parents a prize at the 1929 Minnesota 
State Fair for the “Most Eugenic Baby.” Eugenics was 
the dominant scientific fad among American pseudo-
intellectuals in those days, and your genealogy seemed 
ideal by the prevailing standards. 
Your parents put on a good show for the judges. It 
took superior breeding and superior rearing to create a 
superior child. 
From then on, any hint at mediocrity — middling 
grades, only scoring a single touchdown in a game — 
led your mother to punish you for not living up to your 
“goodly heritage.” Ashamed of squandering the precious 
gift of good breeding, you learned her obsessive/com-
pulsive behavior and avoided failure at all costs. 
You eventually earned a degree in genetics. 
Your work was undeniably brilliant, but cer-
tain factions of the scientific community 
complained that your conclusions “reeked 
of Social Darwinism.”
By the time of your 
Embrace in the late 
1980s, the eugen-
ics craze had 
long since been 
discredited. But 
your diehard sire 
attributed its un-
popularity to the 
modern penchant 
for racial apologet-
ics. Turns out he’d 
been keeping up with 
award-winning eugenic 
children all over North 
America and England. He 
said you were the pick of the 
litter but that as a human you 
were merely a seed. With that, 
he inducted you into the most 
prestigious lineage of all.
Concept: While your 
sire is abroad seeking 
others of good stock, he’s 
set you to work learning 
about the generations of 
your new family. You’ve been 
sidelined from your genealogy of 
Clan Tzimisce by an interest in 
the revenant families that serve your 
kind. You think you might even know 
how to create one of your own. 
Roleplaying Hints: If only 
Mother could see you now! 
Your superior breeding 
has finally earned you 
more than just a prize 
coin, and you intend 
to prove worthy of the 
honor. Cainites of oth-
er clans lack the refined 
Tzimisce heritage, but 
you’ve learned to stop 
pointing that out. 
Their feeble minds 
can’t accept that you’re 
not insulting them; it’s 
not their fault they’re 
mongrels. 
E q u i p m e n t : 
Collection of old ge-
nealogies and census 
records, DNA lab with 
abutting ghoul kennels, 
portrait of Mother, bronze coin 
inscribed “Yea, I have a goodly 
heritage”


Clanbook: Tzimisce
80
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Eugenic Baby
Tzimisce
11th
Sadist
Autocrat
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception)
 Vicissitude (Malleable Visage,
 Fleshcraft)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Alluring
Beguiling
Charismatic
Creative
Clever
Discerning
Knowledgeable
Academics
Crafts
Finance
Agile
 Quick
 Tenacious
Contacts x 1
Generation x 2
Herd x 1
Resources x 2
Law
 Occult
Stealth 
Power and the Inner Voice 
Diplomatic
Eloquent
Magnetic
Insightful
Patient 
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Child of the Dracon
Tzimisce
8th
Competitor
Traditionalist
Animalism (Feral Whispers,
 Beckoning, Quell the Beast)
Auspex  (Heightened Senses)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
Intimidating x 2
Alert
Attentive
Cunning
Intuitive
Animal Ken
Brawl
Firearms
Agile
Dexterous
Enduring x 2
Generation x 5
Mentor x 3
Resources x 3
Intimidation
Occult
Melee
Honorable Accord
Stalwart
Steady x 2
Shrewd


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
81
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Competitor
DEMEANOR: Traditionalist
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 8th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Child of the Dracon
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Mentor
Resources
Sabbat Status
Animalism
Auspex
Honorable Accord
Child of the Dracon
Quote: The third mouth of Azhi Dahaka whispers to me 
the Dream of Constantinople. From the Savior of Caine, I 
learned the Divinity Within. For Gesu, I uphold the honor of 
Lillian and testify to the divinity of the Immaculate Union. For 
Symeon, I shall be my Brother’s Keeper. I have read the books 
of the Library of the Forgotten and fear the Keeper of the Faith 
and her Watchers. I am protector of the Family Obertus. I shall 
keep the idols of the Akoimetai. The Codex of Legacies is the 
law. Until Gehenna and Armageddon, I shall fight for Heaven 
on Earth. In opposition, the murder of Gaul’s Antonius will be 
redeemed. This is my pledge to the Dracon, the First Childe, 
the Holy Ghost, my grandfather. And unto Caine all blessings. 
Confirm me, for the Dracon. Amen. 
Prelude: Grandma Obertus taught you to respect your 
Tzimisce masters. Grandpa taught you how to use a library. 
From your uncle, you learned how to handle a rifle, and 
from your father, you learned that 
one day everyone in the world 
would be an Obertus.
Every year, the Drag-
on visited your family’s 
estate in rural New 
Hampshire. Just before 
bedtime, he took 
the children 
i n t o 
the woods one by one. He asked you a few 
innocuous questions every visit — how 
were your studies coming along, what 
did you do for fun, how did you get 
along with your brothers and sisters. 
One year, he walked you back to the 
house with a promise of immortality 
and a blood-wet kiss in your hair. Your 
parents drowned your siblings so they 
could devote all their time to you. You 
had so much to learn, and the Dragon 
would be back to collect you soon. 
Concept: You have just recited the 
12 legacies and been Embraced into the 
Children of the Dracon. Now you’ve left 
your sire to establish yourself within the 
Sabbat. Perhaps you’ll join a pack or serve 
as a templar attached to a bishop or priscus.
Roleplaying Hints: You take the pre-
cepts of your order very seriously, although 
your sire has yet to reveal what several of 
them mean. You still go home to visit 
your Obertus kin, but now, you ad-
dress them as a lord rather than a son.
Equipment: Tec 9, AR-15 
assault rifle, homemade claymore 
mines, three stakes, PCS phone, 
seal of the Triumvirate, a letter 
from the Dracon (addressed to “Michael,” 
unopened)


Clanbook: Tzimisce
82
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Child
DEMEANOR: Visionary
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Koldun Nuevo
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Rituals
Sabbat Status
Auspex
Animalism
Vicissitude
Koldunic Sorcery
Metamorphosis
Koldun Nuevo
Quote: Fucked with the wrong bitch, chica. Cherno-
bog, attend me!
Prelude: She called you a prodigy. Your teachers 
thought that a girl who wasn’t shy about her world-
champion smarts was obviously disturbed. All they did 
was nag you about those “disrespectful devil worshipers 
who probably smoke the drugs” friends of yours. But she 
recognized right off what you’d known all your life — 
that you were first original thinker born since Socrates. 
Like you, she knew life was short. 
Her Embrace came at just the right time. She 
preserved you at the height of your formidable powers, 
with the maturity to see things as they are plus the youth 
to change them. Your sire was a rare breed herself, a 
koldun. She said you were the first mortal in 500 years 
she thought worthy of her secrets. And she prophesied 
that you would surpass her. 
Growing up in Mexico City, you always won-
dered how you’d make something of yourself. Now, 
you know. It pisses you off that the end of the 
world will preempt such potential. Sometimes, 
you just want to find the nearest Antediluvian 
and show it what happens when you vent.
Concept: You are one of the Sabbat’s few young 
koldun. You serve as your pack’s priest — a wise 
and wicked mother hen who collects new 
ignoblis ritae from every pack she 
meets. Older Cainites regard you 
as an impetuous fidget. That’s 
just their obsolescence talk-
ing. In the Final Nights, the 
Sabbat belongs to the young. 
Roleplaying Hints: 
You are a prodigy nearing 
full bloom. While the 
forces you command oc-
casionally overwhelm 
your judgment, those 
who know you expect 
you to become a 
giant within the 
Sabbat — a can-
didate for the 
consistory, 
p e r h a p s . 
B u t  y o u 
don’t waste 
time with a 
future that 
can’t exist. 
As far as you’re concerned, the Final 
Nights are here.
You respect the august his-
tory of your clan but aren’t 
beholden to it. Observe 
the traditions that work 
for you, and remix the 
ones that don’t into mind-
blowing theories of your 
own. Right now, you’re 
testing some ideas a 
that are something 
like Metamorphosis 
as conceived by Lil-
ith, but your outlook 
changes monthly. If 
you have a failing, it’s 
that you progress so 
fast that you never 
get comfortable 
where you are. 
E q u i p m e n t : 
Various koldunic imple-
ments, Mossberg shotgun, 
ceremonial knife, Vaul-
derie bowl, rucksack full 
of clothes and books 


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
83
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Koldun Nuevo
Tzimisce
13th
Child
Visionary
Auspex (Heightened Senses)
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
 Vicissitude (Malleable Visage,
 Fleshcraft), Koldunic Sorcery 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic x 2
 Expressive
 Persuasive
Attentive
Clever
Creative
 Knowledgeable
Linguistics (Spanish)
Medicine
Occult x 3
Energetic
Gracefu
 Steady
Influence (Occult x 1)
Metamorphasis
Observant
Reflective
Wise
Witty
, Rituals x 3
Science 
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Kennel Master
Tzimisce
12th
Survivor
Deviant
Animalism (Feral Whispers,
 Beckoning, Quell the Beast)
 Vicissitude (Malleable Visage, 
Fleshcraft)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding x 2
Empathetic
Cunning
Discerning
Intuitive
Patient
Animal Ken
Brawl
Crafts
Brawny
Enduring x 2
Quick
Generation x 1
Herd x 2
Mentor x 2
Resources x 1
Empathy
Medicine
Occult 
Tireless
Tough x 2
Shrewd
 Retainers x 1


Clanbook: Tzimisce
84
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Survivor
DEMEANOR: Deviant
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Kennel Master
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Herd
Mentor
Resources
Retainers
Animalism
Vicissitude
Kennel Master
Quote: I would put that gun away if I were you. My fellows don’t like it when I’m threatened.… Listen, I tried 
warning you. At least I won’t have to feed the pack now.
Prelude: You love animals — spiritually, mentally and intimately — even more than you do humans. They’re loyal 
and attentive, and they don’t betray your sordid secrets. You started life as a Bratovitch ghoul, befriending the dozens 
of monstrosities raised in your family’s kennel. You slept in their cages and shared their food bowls when your parents 
starved you for weeks on end. Invariably, you could communicate with them far more easily than you could speak English.
Finally, matters came to a head when you disobeyed your mother while your Tzimisce master visited the ken-
nel. When she tore after you with a butcher’s knife, the entire menagerie was suddenly at your side with just a word, 
protecting you from your parents. The Tzimisce lord intervened by liberating your kin’s heads from their shoulders. 
Better to destroy them than their gifted daughter and her loyal herd of animals. He took you under his wing and 
eventually Embraced you as the new Kennel Master. Now, you raise animals for the Sabbat, creating packs of hell 
hounds and the like and overseeing their training.
Concepts: You’re Dr. Dolittle and Hannibal Lecter all rolled into one twitchy ball of flesh. Uncomfortable 
around mortals and Cainites, you spend your time with animals, training new beasts for the master. 
Unlike most Bratovitches, you temper your flesh-crafting ministrations with love. You rarely 
need vitae to ensure the animals’ loyalty, though that does guarantee 
your creations rarely turn against you.
Roleplaying Hints: You despise interacting with others, even 
though you must. Therefore, social intercourse is a chore because 
it demands more of your patience than necessary. Cainites mistake 
you for shy, but you operate with animal efficiency. If somebody 
angers you, you snap and bite at them. If you’re attracted to 
someone, you use physical prowess to prove yourself in courtship 
rituals, and if you have a rival, you try and establish yourself as 
the alpha by besting them in combat; dwelling among animals 
destroyed certain mortal considerations in you.
Equip-
m e n t : 
Soiled and 
bloodied 
butcher’s 
s m o c k , 
c e l l 
p h o n e , 
b o w i e 
k n i f e , 
w h i p 
and dog 
whistle


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
85
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conformist
DEMEANOR: Rogue
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Star Fucker
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Auspex
Vicissitude
Star, Fucker
Quote: My autograph? Yeah, sure. Thank you, I’m 
glad you liked my last movie. Listen, I’m late for a private 
party…say, you wouldn’t be interested in joining me, would 
you? Tom, Nicole, Matt and a few other celebs will be there… 
Prelude: As class clown in high school, you had a 
knack for impersonations and a quick wit that made you 
popular. You had flair and talent that would turn you into 
the next… well, whoever it was that everyone else liked at 
the moment. You were going to be famous; everyone said so. 
Unfortunately, talent without drive or connections leaves 
you nowhere. You didn’t know that until you discovered 
how hard it was to break into the film business. The highest 
point in your career was making pornos to make ends meet, 
and even then, you enjoyed little success. 
After smut flicks, you could hardly fall any further. 
Hardly… you started with drugs, and that only stopped with 
your Embrace. You were diagnosed HIV positive and became 
involved with the underground live-performance pornog-
raphy scene. Some freaks would pay big money to 
anyone willing to perform degrading sexual acts 
for an audience of bored socialites. So, when 
your “arranger” involved you in increasingly 
demeaning shows, you readily agreed because 
of the substantial pay-offs. Your last gig was 
for a freaky-looking crowd who got off on 
watching razor blade foreplay. Unfortunately, 
you cut your partner too deeply during your 
performance and spilled too much of her blood. 
The audience, however, simply tossed hundred-
dollar bills to the ground and said the money was 
yours if you bled your partner out. Within seconds, 
at least two grand lay on the floor. You gutted your 
partner without even blinking. That’s when you 
got to know the Sabbat. 
Concept: You may not be a star, but you 
can certainly look like one. You party at 
the best nightclubs, dupe young fans into 
doing whatever you want and have the 
occasional paparazzi hound snapping 
away at your indiscretions. You even 
host Hollywood faux-parties, where 
other young Tzimisce and Nosferatu 
antitribu don the faces of contempo-
rary stars and intermingle with mortal 
“guests” (before dropping their disguises 
and devouring the poor kine). You may 
not be famous in the mortal world, 
but you’re certainly establishing a rep 
among the Sabbat as a consummate 
entertainer and bon vivant.
Roleplaying 
Hints: Everybody 
you know is noth-
ing more than a 
collection of habits, id-
iosyncrasies and speech 
affectations for you to 
play with. You know 
which personality or mannerism best 
amuses others, but you don’t have a 
developed personality of your own. You 
entertain and harangue other people be-
cause you’re afraid your friends might 
realize how dull you actually 
are. You haven’t even 
“looked” like your-
self this last month. 
You’ve always been 
somebody else, 
pretending at an 
existence not your 
own, playing for 
the appreciation 
of others. In 
public, you’re 
the unlife of the 
party. In private, 
you bore yourself 
to blood-tears.
Equipment: 
Chic clothing 
— always in the 
style of your lat-
est impersonation 
(huge wardrobe), PCS 
phone, Mercedes Benz (sto-
len and unregistered), latest 
Hollywood gossip rag, pony 
of cocaine for the fans. 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
86
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Star, Fucker
Tzimisce
13th
Conformist
Rogue
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception), 
Vicissitude (Malleable Visage, 
Fleshcraft)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Alluring, Beguiling
 Charming x 2
Elegant
 Creative x 2
Disciplined
Insightful
Reflective
Empathy
Expression
Firearms
Graceful
Lithe
Tenacious
Occult
Performance
Subterfuge
 Wiry
Shrewd
 
Expressive
 Gorgeous
Seductive x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
Allies x 1
Contacts x 2
Fame x 1
Herd x 2
 
_  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Modern Primitive
Tzimisce
13th
Thrill-Seeker
Masochist
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception)
Viscissitude (Malleable Visage, Fleshcraft)
Fortitude (Endurance)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
Expressive
Magnetic x 2 
Insightful
Knowledgeable
Wily
Academics
Crafts
Medicine
Agile
Energetic
 Nimble x 2
Occult
Performance
Science 
 
Witty
Resilient
 Robust
Wiry
Resources x 2


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
87
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Thrill-Seeker
DEMEANOR: Masochist
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Modern Primitive
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Auspex
Vicissitude
Fortitude
Allies
Contacts
Fame
Herd
Resources
Modern Primitive
Quote: Pain and suffering are portraits of survival, and 
you’re a blank canvas that needs painting.
Prelude: You hated the modern world and felt lost in its 
harsh ambivalence. You found no rites to mark your journey 
through life except for losing your virginity. Even animals 
could do that, however. Looking for ordeals to testify that you 
survived adversity, you came across Fakir Musafar’s Dances 
Sacred and Profane, which showed how he hung himself from 
hooks in the Indian Sun Dance. Your world suddenly opened 
up, for he talked about the very things you felt lacking in 
your life. Pain wasn’t about enduring, but about celebrating 
existence and marking your way.
You started slowly, with tattoos and piercings, but swiftly 
moved through the gamut of 
mortification rituals. You 
went to Samoa for au-
thentic tribal tattoos 
and nearly died from 
the experience. After 
enduring hot and 
cold branding, you 
eventually moved 
to cuttings and 
s c a r i f i c a -
tion. You 
immersed 
yourself in the modern primitive movement because it sang to you. You 
worked for a tattoo parlor and, eventually, did fetish parties where an artist 
took a scalpel to your flesh for the entertainment of the other guests. Not 
once did you scream. That’s what attracted you to the Sabbat. That’s why 
you survived your sire’s Embrace, in a mass spectacle and one of your most 
glorious experiences. Now, you move among like-minded Brothers and 
Sisters in Caine, advocating new tests of mettle to celebrate existence: 
You’re an up-and-coming vicar of pain.
Concept: The world is lacking for adventure, but the Sabbat changed 
that. The body is a vehicle for experience, and you firmly believe that which 
does not kill you makes you stronger. Unfortunately, kine are not sturdy 
when it comes to your standards of punishment and pain thresholds. Sure, 
they’ll come in for the tribal armband tattoo that’s become so damn chic now, 
but you’re doing them a service by inking their organs. You’ve also created 
some nice bone etchings, too; it’s a pity only the coroner will see your work. 
With the Sabbat, however, you’ve found creatures capable, and even proud, 
of undergoing your rigors. You grow more involved with the sect because 
of Cainites like yourself who can endure pain rites far beyond the limits of 
mortal flesh and bone. Your role echoes that of the ancient tribal shamans; 
you are the new priest and performer of the modern nights.
Roleplaying Hints: If it involves pain, you’re there. Despite your 
undead state, you love life so dearly it makes you ache. It sings to 
you, it challenges you with a thousand dangers that demand testing. 
Conversely, you despise people who don’t push their limits to see 
what they’re truly capable of doing. What are they afraid of, death? 
Look at where that brought you. When you’re not pushing the 
limits of danger, you’re the danger pushing the limits. 
Equipment: Tattoo tool case with inks, sculpting drill 
with numerous drill bit types, piercing needles, straps, skimpy 
clothing to show off your accoutrements


Clanbook: Tzimisce
88
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Penitent
DEMEANOR: Martyr
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: The New Promethius
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Auspex
Fortitude
Potence
Sabbat Status
The New Prometheus
Quote: We are a gestalt rarely given to consensus. 
We’ve decided that we don’t like you, however. Wha’dya 
know; we’ve agreed to kill you!
Prelude: You don’t really remember who you were 
before the Embrace; none of you do. Your memory begins 
with horrible pain, at the moment Cainite vitae spilled 
over your exposed organs. You were all a puddle of het-
erogeneous goo; melted flesh, partially liquefied bone and 
a molasses of organs from nine people all mixed together. 
You pulled and pushed, tearing yourself away from the 
others, but accidentally taking pieces of them with you. 
You heard your soon-to-be-pack chanting and betting at 
who’d emerge first. Your body formed slowly; your arm 
was missing, so you sloughed somebody else’s 
arm away; your left eye was gone, so you 
stole that from your neighbor as well. 
Before you knew it, you emerged from 
the viscera stew, a Cainite lost-and-found 
of other people’s body parts and organs. 
That’s when you turned on the other 
victims and fed on them blood and soul.
You have no past save for the whis-
pery echoes and flashes of insight from the 
eight others you emerged from. It’s taken 
a while to assert a single personality 
and identity, but the voices never 
diminish. You were a banker, 
an orderly, an eating disorder 
therapist, a pusher — yet none 
of these histories fit you. Some 
skills and temperaments come 
easily and seem natural, while 
others are completely incon-
gruous. That matches your 
appearance perfectly. You are 
a hodgepodge of races and 
oddly grafted flesh; you are a 
Neo-Frankenstein’s Monster 
of the modern nights. 
Concept: Your pack 
calls you an unwilling 
Renaissance man and an 
undead jack-of-all-trades. 
You’re a magician’s hat; 
nobody knows what’ll 
come out of you next, 
not even yourself. 
You’re a party trick for 
your pack, a curiosity 
among freaks, and you 
hate your existence with 
a passion. You want 
one solid identity, one 
personality and look. 
Instead, you’ve got eight voices 
buzzing in your head with edged 
memories that dice you any-
time you remember one. 
Roleplaying Hints: You 
have one dominant personal-
ity but refer to yourself as “we” 
because it feels right. Your past 
is a montage of scenes pasted 
together from the cutting room 
floor of nine movies. As such, 
you’ve stopped focusing on 
who you were and search for 
who you want to be. Unfortu-
nately, that’s proven difficult 
with both your pack and the Sab-
bat treating you like a freakshow. 
How can you become someone 
else when everyone keeps re-
minded you of what you are? 
Equipment: Wallets from 
the nine people you emerged from, 
mirror, copy of Mary Shelley’s Fran-
kenstein, black book and debit card 
(banker’s), apartment (therapist’s), 
run-down Volvo (baker’s), badly co-
ordinated ensemble including jacket 
and tie, green scrubs and black boots


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
89
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
The New Promethius
Tzimisce
13th
Penitent
Martyr
Animalism (Feral Whispers, Beckoning, 
Quell the Beast)
Auspex (Heightened Senses)
 Fortitude (Endurance), Potence (Prowess)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding
Intimidating x 2 
Attentive
Patient
Rational
Vigilant x 2
Animal Ken
Brawl
Intimidation
Brawny x 2
Ferocious
Steady
Melee
Occult x 2
Survival 
 
Tenacious x 2
 Vigorous
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Oprichniki Man Friday
Tzimisce
9th
Perfectionist
Conformist
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception)
 Viscissitude (Malleable Visage)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
 Charming
 Eloquent
Clever
Knowledgeable
Observant
Academics
Computer
Drive
Agile
Dexterous
Stalwart x 2
Etiquette
Occult
Survival
 
Tireless 
 Diplomatic
Persuasive x 2
 Magnetic
Allies x 3
Contacts x 3
 Generation x 4
Resources x 3


Clanbook: Tzimisce
90
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Perfectionist
DEMEANOR: Conformist
CLAN: Tzimisce
GENERATION: 9th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Oprichniki Man Friday
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Auspex
Vicissitude
Allies
Alternate Identity
Contacts
Generation
Resources
Sabbat Status
Oprichniki Man Friday
Quote: Yes, sir, your Prague haven will be ready for your 
arrival next week. Yes, sir, I know, three young men to feed on, 
I’ve already seen to it. Sir, about the auction; I have it on good 
authority that two bidders may pose a threat. Should I turn up 
a little dirt on them or go ahead and steal the item in question 
from the auction house? 
Prelude: You were always of Clan Tzimisce, as were your 
parents and the generations that preceded them over the 
centuries. Although history remembers the Oprichniki as cut-
throats and sadists, you are far removed from their legacy. From 
your mortal infancy, your Tzimisce lord saw to your training 
in a variety of skills. Whether he versed you in matters of the 
occult or sent you to the best school of business and finance, 
you never doubted that you would eventually serve your 
benefactor as major-domo or man Friday. You did not foresee 
the Embrace, however. The Russian Tzimisce rarely offered 
the Kiss to your family, if only because they needed you in a 
servile position. When the Iron Curtain fell, the Rus Fiends 
knew they could no longer hide from the world behind the 
protection of their borders, but neither were they willing to 
risk their unlives to venture beyond their comfortably familiar 
domains. That’s why your lord Embraced you.
Same job, different circumstances. You still serve your 
lord, but you are now a Fiend as well. This entitles you to 
a certain independence that none of your mortal family 
enjoys, including the privilege of traveling the world. 
Unfortunately, you’ve already encountered the loutish 
Sabbat during your brief existence and must pay them 
the same “respect” that your lord does. Sometimes, 
this means participating in their backward rites 
or gatherings, but you need them. They are 
your only hope in breaking your blood 
ties to your sire. Without them, you’ll 
never enjoy complete freedom and 
true independence.
Concepts: Some Tzi-
misce might say you’re the 
right hand of your sire, but 
you know you act as both 
hands. The centuries turned 
him into an anachronism, 
and he spends his evenings 
sequestered in his manse 
like an impotent spider 
that can longer spin its 
web. You are one of your 
lord’s tethers to the 
modern nights. He re-
lies on you to oversee 
his financial security, 
to travel where he 
refuses to go and to 
deal with people he will 
not see. This is dangerous, 
for you are intermediary, 
negotiator, mouthpiece 
and messenger for allies, rivals and, oc-
casionally, enemies of your lord. You 
know this might cost your existence, so 
you plan and scheme for your eventual 
liberation from servitude. 
Roleplaying Hints: You are goal-driven 
and determined, but your Embrace allows 
for certain freedoms you never knew as 
a ghoul. Coupled with the fact that 
you are among a select few in your 
family to be given the Embrace, 
that fills you with a blossoming ar-
rogance about your new existence. 
With the taste of limited indepen-
dence fresh in your mouth, you 
want more. Your lord depends on 
you greatly, and that is his weakness. 
A time will come when you will no 
longer need him. Until then, you use 
the Sabbat to break the blood ties to 
your sire, and you familiarize yourself 
with all facets of his acquisitions and 
properties. After all, you know them 
better than he does, and eventually, 
it will all be yours. 
Equipment: Armani suit, Ray-
ban sunglasses, briefcase, PCS phone, 
laptop computer, beeper, Glock 17


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
91
Sample Pack: The 
Chalice of Osseous 
Delights 
My eyes burn meltdown red from the feeding but the cops 
think I’m some stoner or something. 
“No, officer, just tired I guess. I don’t usually stay up this late.”
“What was all that screaming about?”
“Girlfriend’s on the rag. She doesn’t like it when I have 
friends over.”
“Mind if I take a look?”
“Hey, if you want. Enter freely of your own will, and… 
yeah, come on in.”
Officer Bloodbag steps into the stairwell, and before I can 
shut the door, Sunshine’s on him like a starving dog. She wasted 
most of her juice dealing with that thing down by Turner Field 
earlier tonight. I guess she’s still hungry even after the bum and 
all those Oasis girls. How does her little body hold so much blood?
Damn, but she’s a messy eater. Zaljko’s already taken 
up the stairwell tarp so blood’s everywhere. Now that I think 
about it, maybe I’m a little thirsty myself.
Upstairs, they’re screaming again. Better to wade in past Sun-
shine now because there’s not going to be anything left for tomorrow. 
No one licks around here. For real though, I love ‘em, but I stay 
with a bunch of slobs. I’ll need juice — Blood Feast, tomorrow, 
the Clarkston brownfield. No way Ashanti’s outdoing me this year. 
Jumping over the fire, that’s bullshit. But I’ll show her some bullshit. 
It’s a new year, Ashanti. Not even you can avoid the flames.
We were there on Kupala’s Night. We were there when Lugoj 
drank our Father dry. We signed the Code of Milan. We brought 
down the city of Atlanta. And we are Tzimisce. Do not fuck with us.
* * *
They have inherited the legacy of a founding Sabbat 
pack. They can say the words, but they do not know what they 
mean. In the Final Nights, the Chalice of Osseous Delights 
is brought low, as all things must be — ignorant and weak, 
howling for blood and a history that is forever lost to them.
My Children Are My Bones
In the Old Country, some Tzimisce voivodes Embraced 
“prestige broods”— large broods of childer with little pur-
pose but to demonstrate that vitae was plentiful in the sire’s 
demesne. The pack that came to be known as the Chalice 
of Osseous Delights began as one such ostentatious brood.
Cezar Satnoianu was not a bad sire. He taught his childer the 
virtues of Metamorphosis and, in his dismissive way, encouraged 
them to seek Azhi Dahaka. He kept them full and fat with blood. 
But Cezar regarded them as pretty dolls to pose and prod. 
The brood was not meant to share Cezar’s great legacy. Not 
even Dimka, the first among his childer, had a more trying 
task than to stand still while his sire crafted his bone structure 
in novel ways. The skeleton was Cezar’s fascination. He used 
his childer as showpieces and experiments. Every few years, 
he told his brood the story of an ancient koldunic ritual that 
had inspired his fleshcrafting curiosities, and, borrowing the 
name of the ritual, told his childer that they were “a chalice 
of osseous delights that, for eternity, shall never run dry.” 
But the Tzimisce blood filling their dead veins would 
not allow Cezar’s childer to suffer that for long. While Cezar 
slumbered in the dirt of his crypt, Dimka told his brothers and 
sisters of Lugoj and that Cainite’s designs to break the blood 
bond. They resisted such heresy at first, but their hesitation 
grew distant as they shared blood in the minutes before dawn.
On Kupala’s Night, Cezar and his brood traveled to visit 
another voivode, as custom decreed. After he paraded them 
about, Cezar released his childer to enjoy themselves in the 
village beneath their host’s fortress. Dimka and his siblings rode 
to the feet of the Carpathians. They beheld Kupala’s crimson 
flower, and Cezar’s blood could indenture them no longer.
Cezar and his host were among the first Tzimisce elders 
to fall on Kupala’s Night. His childer, dubbing themselves “the 
Chalice of Osseous Delights” as a final denunciation of their sire, 
moved through Transylvania and Wallachia with their fellow 
packs, destroying elders in the night and sharing blood with 
other “sabbats” in the wee hours of the morning. Sometimes, 
they were merciful — they spared an ancient Fiend, a sorcerous 
pagan named Bogescu, in exchange for his art. His craft alone 
saved them from the ghoul swarm when the pack stormed the 
church of the Tzimisce Ancient. Dimka wept bloody tears as 
they retreated. He could not witness Lugoj’s triumph.
When the Sabbat sprang from this revolutionary mire, the 
Chalice of Osseous Delights was one of the founding packs. 
It rampaged through Thorns the night the Camarilla drew its 
charter and returned to Eastern Europe thereafter. The Old 
Country was bloated with Tremere, far too dangerous for a 
pack that counted a koldun in its number. But where angels 
feared to tread, the childer of Cezar leaped. 
For the next 400 years, the pack aided Cardinal Bistri 
and his successors in the futile effort to repel the Usurpers. 
Numerous Cainites were Embraced into the pack. Many of the 
original members of the pack met Final Death — a Usurper 
of such power that he could only have been the Founder 
himself destroyed Bogescu. Dimka fled to the New World. 
Throughout its various incarnations, however, the Chalice 
of Osseous Delights kept its koldunic lore and the techniques 
of Vicissitude that had earned the pack its name. 
In the end, it took World War I to expel the pack from their 
ancestral homeland. They fled to France, crossed the channel, 
and their ghouls smuggled them to New York in boxes of dirt. 
Their exploits in America proved no less audacious. They 
destroyed Lasombra “conscripts” by the dozen in the Second 
Sabbat Civil War and signed the revised Code of Milan in 1933. 
In the Third Sabbat Civil War, Brujah antitribu and their Caitiff 
lapdogs destroyed the final member of the original pack. Only 
childer, grandchilder and great-grandchilder remained, but still, a 
koldun, a Romanian named Zaljko Petrescu, existed among them.
In the late 1990s, the pack left New York to escape what 
its members saw as certain destruction at the hands of the Ca-
marilla, only to join in the crusade to take Atlanta. In the end, 
only Zaljko and a few neonates, only months dead, remained….


Clanbook: Tzimisce
92
Using These Despicable 
Bastards
Not all Sabbat packs are roving street punks who get 
loaded on spiked blood, run through bonfires and worship 
the devil, but some come pretty close. Although they don’t 
fall too far from the most panicky Camarilla stereotypes, the 
Chalice of Osseous Delights represents the new face of the 
Sabbat, especially that of the Tzimisce: non-nuclear families 
united by shared hardships and the Vaulderie, ignorant of 
their august history, suspicious of elders, skeptical about the 
existence of the Antediluvians, eager to attend the parties and 
spill blood in the crusades but unwilling to swallow most of 
the bullshit their sect feeds them. In that regard, they’re an 
easy fit for any Sabbat chronicle, whether as fellow soldiers 
in a siege or as another pack to challenge in the struggle for 
territory or prestige. For the Camarilla sellouts out there, a 
Storyteller can use these characters when his players’ coterie 
runs into another one of those seemingly faceless Sabbat packs.
Shovelheads Unite!
The Guide of the Sabbat describes some of the Natures, 
Demeanors, Abilities, Backgrounds and Paths of Enlighten-
ment in the profiles below. For more information on Koldunic 
Sorcery, its ways and the related Knowledge, see Blood Magic: 
Secrets of Thaumaturgy. 
America Johnson, the Rich Girl
Background: Forget the stereotype of the spoiled little rich 
girl who runs away, then comes crying back to daddy when she 
sees how bad life on the street really is. America ran away and 
stayed on the street because that’s where she belonged. At 17, 
she left her Highland Park home in Dallas and took a bus to 
Athens, Georgia to pursue the shabby-chic lifestyle with her 
friends. Too much time at the 40 Watt Club, a paranoid un-
willingness to spend the $100,000 she’d stolen from her parents 
and a variety of addictions conspired to make her homeless.
Over the next few years, America slept wherever she could, 
wearing out her welcome with a dozen friends, crashing with 
acquaintances and one-night stands, sometimes sleeping on the 
streets. On the coldest night of 1997, she withdrew 40 bucks for 
a room at the Ramada. Whenever her growing heroin addiction 
gave her the elbow, she preferred sucking dick to a trip to the bank.
In the spring of 1999, she hitched a ride into Atlanta for 
a hook-up. Her “chauffeur” turned into a groper when the E 
kicked in, so she told him to fuck off and spent the next few 
months sleeping in doorways. Meanwhile, the Sabbat crusade 
for Atlanta was heating up. America had no idea that the Jyhad 
was playing out around her, but she got scared as more and more 
junkies disappeared off the streets. On her way to the ATM, Zaljko 
and his pack drove by and pulled her into a van. Her last mortal 
memory: a rude circle of leering faces and cheap shag carpet. 
Image: America, like her namesake, banks on her attainable 
beauty. Unlike the rest of her pack, she refuses all Vicissitude 
modifications and looks much like she did in life: thin enough to 
look unhealthy, average enough to fit in, cool enough not to care.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re resourceful — you survived for 
years without a stable home and only had to touch your mad 
money once. Although you usually go along with the pack 
consensus, you throw a fit if someone wants to do something 
really stupid. That’s the problem with this world, as you see 
it — morons who can’t take care of their shit. You enjoy 
messing with the heads of such people and affect whatever 
demeanor you believe will exclude you from their ranks. 
Sire: Zaljko Petrescu
Nature: Enigma
Demeanor: Chameleon
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1999
Apparent Age: mid-20s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 2
Talents: Alertness 4, Brawl 2, Dodge 1, Empathy 3, 
Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Drive 2, Firearms 2, Fire Dancing 2, Melee 1, 
Stealth 3, Vamp 3 
Knowledges: Academics 2, Computer 1, Medicine 2
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Vicissitude 1
Backgrounds: Resources 1 (America has plenty of money, but 
she’s extremely reluctant to withdraw too much at any given time.)
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 3, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 2
Willpower: 6
Sunshine, the Kid Erinys
Background: Amy Coltraine died the night the Chal-
ice of Osseous Delights Embraced her and stuck her in an 
overturned refrigerator. The thing that came up wasn’t 
Amy at all. It was a monster that spent all of its humanity 
kicking its way through the sheet metal.
She isn’t sure which pack member was her sire. Maybe 
it was the one who started calling her “Sunshine,” the one 


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
93
killed by that Nosferatu with the third eye. Who cares? It’s 
America who holds her head when she cries, and Tyrone 
who packs the earth around her just before the sun comes up.
The Cainites of Atlanta regard Sunshine as a True Sabbat 
worthy of the title — she was even a templar for Bishop Sut-
phen briefly. In the first nights after her Embrace, she hurled 
herself into the war against the Camarilla and emerged with 
a collection of skulls envied by Cainites 100 years her senior. 
Sunshine even refused an offer from Francisco Domingo de 
Polonia, Cardinal of the Eastern American Territories, to 
serve him as a paladin. Impelled by the Vinculum, she chose 
to remain with the Chalice of Osseous Delights — with the 
bony spurs on her shoulders and arms, she remains the only 
member to live up to the pack’s name. Along with Tyrone, she’s 
the muscle of the pack and finds mongrels, strays and rodents 
to guard whatever place the pack finds to sleep out the day.
Image: A little angel with the blank expression of a 
genuine sociopath. She pouts but stands still while America 
and Ashanti do her hair each night — they like to experi-
ment. She wears whatever’s handy, often stealing shirts from 
Tyrone. Zaljko has manipulated the bones of her forearms, 
shoulder blades and shins to create rows of sharp spikes for 
pinning food and ripping through rival packs.
Roleplaying Hints: Amy’s dead. You’re Sunshine. You 
need blood to wake up each night. Try not to cry so much. 
Shut up, and bear it. Put yourself in the middle of things — 
throw yourself into dangerous situations whenever you can. 
With luck, someone bigger than you will finish you off one 
night. In the meantime, take on as many monsters as you 
can, and show them the light.
Sire: Unknown
Nature: Eye of the Storm
Demeanor: Child
Generation: 12th
Embrace: 1999
Apparent Age: 9
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 5, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 1, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Talents: Athletics 3, Brawl 5, Dodge 4
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Body Crafts 2, Fire Dancing 3, 
Firearms 2, Melee 3, Stealth 2
Knowledges: Academics 1
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 1, Vicissitude 1
Backgrounds: Sabbat Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 2, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 1
Willpower: 4
Note: Sunshine’s bony spikes inflict aggravated damage. 
Zaljko Petrescu, the Lord Original 
Background: Zaljko discovered the Chalice of Osseous 
Delights during his mortal career as a freight inspector in 
Bucovina. Skinny Danifa, a grandchilde of a member of the 
original pack, took him as a ghoul to oversee her transport 
out of the country. He performed this chore well, exploiting 
the holes in the easily bribed bureaucracy that employed him 
to smuggle the pack out of the country. Danifa kept Zaljko 
with her for the voyage to America. 
But Danifa didn’t take to the New World. First, she com-
plained that America’s immigrant blood was of an unsatisfying 
consistency. Then, she started waking up in the middle of the 
day, grabbing Zaljko and screaming in his ear that Kupala was 
angry at her for abandoning her native soil. She grew terrified that 
her sorcery would fail her. She spent most nights holed up in the 
pack’s communal haven, refusing all company except for Zaljko, 
rambling to her ghoul about needing a vessel for her wisdom.
Toward the end of her unlife, Danifa only accepted vitae 
when she was on the ragged edge of frenzy. She Embraced 
Zaljko and another ghoul who served the pack. With a wild 
look in her eyes, she told the two she would teach them both 
the rudiments of Koldunic Sorcery and destroy the student 
who did not progress as far as the other. Zaljko won. The 
blood of his competitor was his prize.
Danifa fell into torpor a month later for want of blood. 
The rest of the pack considered her a liability. When they set 
upon her slumbering form, Zaljko lead the charge.
Zaljko assumed the duties of pack priest for the next 40 
years. When the Camarilla made significant headway in New 
York, he suggested that the pack blow town for a few months 
and assist the crusade in Atlanta. The pack, perhaps swayed 
by the powerful concoction of Zaljko’s Vaulderie, agreed to 
their priest’s plan. Rather than meeting Final Death in the 
Big Apple, they met it in the South. 
Zaljko, suddenly the ductus and priest for a pack of neo-
nates, conducted several mass Embraces and made token efforts 
in the crusade for Atlanta. When the Sword of Caine was 
triumphant, the pack was five strong and completely ignorant 
of their culture except for what little Zaljko could tell them.
Image: Zaljko looks gray and tired. He rarely makes eye 
contact when he speaks and usually seems to be staring at 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
94
something in the distance. His whole body looks overstuffed 
and bulky since his bones are three times thicker than a mortal’s.
Roleplaying Hints: The universe keeps a shitlist with 
your name at the top. It knows you have cheated death and 
seeks nothing more than to deny you the one or two comfort-
able aspects of undeath. It destroyed your pack just to show 
you it was serious, and now, it’s saddled you with a group of 
worthless fuckheads to ensure your demise. Some nights, you 
feel like finishing the job Creation has started. Others, you 
want to spit in its face. Regardless, you are the keeper of your 
pack’s sorcery, and you must pass it on to Ashanti before your 
imminent demise.
Sire: Skinny Danifa
Nature: Curmudgeon
Demeanor: Guru
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1954
Apparent Age: early 60s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 3, Appearance 1
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 2
Talents: Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Expression 1, Fortune-Telling 3, 
Intimidation 2, Leadership 1, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Body Crafts 4, Etiquette 2, Firearms 3, Fire 
Dancing 2, Melee 3, Security 3, Stealth 1, Survival 2
Knowledges: Academics 3, Investigation 1, Koldunism 3, 
Linguistics 1 (English), Medicine 1, Occult 3, Politics 2
Disciplines: Animalism 3, Auspex 2, Koldunic Sorcery 4, 
Vicissitude 4
Koldunic Paths: Way of Earth 4, Way of the Spirit 2
Backgrounds: Rituals 2, Sabbat Status 1
Virtues: Conviction 3, Instinct 2, Courage 2
Morality: Path of Metamorphosis 4
Willpower: 4
Note: Zaljko’s thick bones give him the equivalent of For-
titude 2 against any damage not caused by fire or sunlight.
Tyrone, the Zulo Loco
Background: Tyrone’s left shoulder bears a tattoo of a 
skeleton depicted in an exaggerated perspective, his enlarged, 
bony hand flipping off the world. Tyrone calls it “Skully.” Some 
nights, he thinks Skully’s the only reason the Chalice of Osse-
ous Delights chose him for the Embrace.
In itself, pack existence wasn’t much of a change for Tyrone. 
Growing up in the gangs of Atlanta’s Techwood neighborhood, 
he didn’t see much of a difference between a knife in the back 
and fangs in the neck. Of course, some of the stuff he did with 
his pack — jumping centuries-old vampires, drinking blood, 
performing weird rituals, kidnapping people and whacking 
them with shovels — were a bit outside his experience. He 
whispered the law of the jungle, just like he had the first time 
he shot someone, and tried to accept what he was.
And hell, assuming the zulo form was better than a fat 
cone and a forty of Bull. When Zaljko was shocked that “such 
a whelp has mastered the sacred form of our kind,” Tyrone felt 
for the first time — undead or otherwise — like a man call-
ing his own shots instead of some monster who’d had his life 
screwed up by bigger monsters.
Tyrone is always the one to pacify America after she throws 
a fit. He’s talked Zaljko down from several bridges. He watches 
out for Sunshine (except in a fight, when she watches out for 
him). But despite their healthy Vinculum, Tyrone competes 
with Ashanti whenever he can, maybe because they were both 
graduates of the same mass Embrace, maybe because she’s clearly 
Zaljko’s favorite. Regardless, the eternal contest is responsible 
for his greatest failures in unlife: his botched attempt to learn 
Koldunic Sorcery and his failure to outdo her in the Fire Dance. 
Image: Tyrone’s covered in tattoos, and some of them move. 
Jets of black ink shoot through his body, making patterns as they 
pass. Every few minutes, they travel through the veins of his temples 


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
95
and create curled horns on both sides of his shaved head. Then, 
the horns fade, and the ink forms tear-shaped loops as it travels 
down his left cheek and back into the patterns on his body. Tyrone 
usually goes shirtless in order to show off his animated tattoos and 
rarely wears anything more concealing than a wife-beater tucked 
into baggy khakis. Skully rides his left shoulder. 
Roleplaying Hints: Of the entire pack, you’re the most 
beholden to the Vinculum — you love your pack, but you 
try too hard. You’ve volunteered yourself for the doomed 
quest of keeping everyone happy. Your packmates take you 
for granted, but no one else seems willing to accept the job. 
Still, you don’t take any shit outside your pack; in zulo form, 
you’re confident you can take on any Cainite in the world. 
You’ve still got a lot to learn. 
Sire: Angel Mercenary
Nature: Caregiver
Demeanor: Rebel
Generation: 13th
Embrace: 1999
Apparent Age: early 20s
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Brawl 4, Dodge 2, In-
timidation 4, Panhandling 1, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 2 
Skills: Animal Ken 1, Body Crafts 3, Drive 2, Firearms 4, Fire 
Dancing 4, Melee 2, Security 1, Stealth 2, Survival 2, Vamp 2 
Knowledges: Investigation 1, Linguistics 1 (English), 
Medicine 2, Sewer Lore 1
Disciplines: Animalism 1, Vicissitude 4
Backgrounds: Contacts 1
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 3, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 5
Ashanti Beachum, the Demon Dreamer 
Background: Ashanti made her last delivery for UPS the 
night Zaljko needed soldiers to throw against a Confederate 
general who persistently refused to give up the ghost. Ashanti, 
Tyrone and two others were the only survivors of their mass 
Embrace, and along with Sunshine, her sire and her vato loco, 
the last members of the pack left standing after the general 
was dust. While the pack swelled with each mass Embrace and 
shrank after each confrontation with the Camarilla, Ashanti 
had decided when she first opened her eyes and found herself 
buried “alive” that she would survive no matter what. In the 
closing nights of the crusade, she was confirmed as True Sabbat.
In the wake of the siege, Zaljko — increasingly paranoid 
about the impending Final Death he saw at every threat — 
spent the quiet time after the feeding and fighting to pass on 
his knowledge of Koldunic Sorcery to Ashanti. She had the 
steel to barter with demons and the passion to preside over 
ritae. In some ways, she’s already surpassed her teacher. The 
spirits whisper to her in the dead of daylight. They’ve even 
taught her a way that her sire has never heard of.
Ashanti now serves as the pack’s priest and spends most 
nights studying her rituals while the rest of the pack ravages 
Atlanta, acquiring food and settling lingering business from the 
Atlanta crusade. Lately, the spirits have shown her the destiny 
of the pack. She urges her packmates to leave Atlanta, citing 
the stagnation of the city rather than the pathetic end that 
awaits them if they stay. 
Image: Ashanti Beachum is a black woman with long 
braids that she can tie into a topknot to reveal a turgid eye in 
the back of her head. Her experiments with Vicissitude have 
contorted her once-proud features into something resembling 
the face of an agitated tiger. A mouth of undifferentiated tissue 
dominates her belly; she’s still figuring out how to make the teeth. 
Roleplaying Hints: The less said about your breathing days 
the better. That was just the epigram before a long story that ends 
with you as the enlightened center of the universe. In the time 
between, you’ll never die, you can modify your body in any way 
you desire and you even talk to spirits. With such power, you 
look at mortals and wonder how you could have ever been one 
of them. Seek Metamorphosis, heed your demonic dreams, and 
tomorrow night, you’ll look at Cainites and wonder the same thing.
Note: In most cases, Ashanti’s rearview eye prevents 
ambushes from behind.
Sire: Zaljko Petrescu
Nature: Survivor
Demeanor: Survivor
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1999
Apparent Age: mid-30s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 5, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Brawl 3, Dodge 1, 
Fortune-Telling 2, Intimidation 3, Leadership 1, Panhan-
dling 4, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 2


Clanbook: Tzimisce
96
Skills: Body Crafts 3, Fire Dancing 4, Firearms 3, Melee 2, 
Performance 3 (acting), Security 1, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics 3, Computers 2, Koldunism 2, 
Medicine 1, Occult 2
Disciplines: Koldunic Sorcery 3, Vicissitude 3
Koldunic Paths: Way of Earth 3, Way of Sorrow 3, Way 
of the Spirit 3
Backgrounds: Rituals 1, Sabbat Status 1
Virtues: Conviction 4, Instinct 3, Courage 3
Morality: Path of Metamorphosis 6
Willpower: 6
Such Delights Made Flesh
It’s almost daylight, and not one of these fuckers has what it 
takes to dig his way out. They’ve been underground for about six 
hours now. That’s a long time to stand around, leaning on a shovel, 
waiting for someone to rise from the grave. Weakness just pisses me 
off. I don’t think the pack’s gonna be any bigger when the sun comes 
up. Maybe next time. Story of our lives… I mean— ah, fuck it.
Atlanta’s finished with us. We’ve won the war, so we turn 
against ourselves. Sunshine’s crying all the time, and America 
keeps grumbling something about Monomacy. Zaljko’s got the 
thousand-yard stare again. 
Ashanti thinks we better skip town before we get mixed up in too 
many more games. The Lawdogs clowned me after her Fire Dance at 
the Blood Feast last week (jumping over the fire, that’s bullshit), but 
I’ve got to agree with her: Atlanta’s no good. Rich girl wants to go to 
California, something’s just screaming at me to head to New York, 
and Zaljko wants to take a boat to fucking Europe! Who knows where 
we’re headed? The Chalice of Osseous Delights — coming soon to a 
town near you. I swear, the first time someone calls me an “injun”.… 
Tzimisce of Note
A quaint phrase — redundant and wholly beside the point. 
It might be more instructive to list Tzimisce who amounted to 
nothing. A Fiend lacking notoriety would be a collector’s item 
indeed. This is less true in these vulgar modern nights of mass 
Embraces and Masquerades, but even the lowliest shovelhead 
plucked from a dumpster might eventually offend Creation in 
some infamous way. Maybe Tzimisce are destined for greatness 
(another stupid phrase). Regardless, every Fiend aspires to 
become a larger-than-death character in his own right; the 
Antediluvian in their blood demands no less. 
Ratti-Ben, the Sister of Blood
Embraced during Alexander the Great’s invasion of the 
Afghan Plateau, Ratti-Ben loves her country with psychotic 
devotion and believes it is a living, breathing organism like 
any other creature. She has seen India’s great population 
assimilate invader after invader or, eventually, reject them 
forcibly. No matter what happens, India returns to her 
people and, therefore, to her, its protector.
Of course, a protector must do many things to guard her 
love as whole to ensure its survival. Ratti-Ben and Kartarirya’s 
other childer are therefore India’s wolves. They cull the weak 
to ensure the herd itself remains strong. Their duty is cruel and 
seemingly capricious, but it is important. Ratti-Ben influences 
events to a violent conclusion, thereby ensuring that the 
strongest and most devoted survive. By Western standards, 
Ratti-Ben is cold, monstrous, brutal and completely lacking 
in pity, hence the Sabbat’s interest in her. She believes herself 
India’s silent savior, however, and every bit a mahatma as 
Gandhi was. In her role as a cruel and terrible avatar, she has 
found a kinship with the Sabbat’s Sascha Vykos and strongly 
entertains the notion of joining its sect. 
Ratti-Ben draws her herd and her followers from India’s 
downtrodden and often discarded populace, be they low-caste 
or widowed wives. She plays her hand in India’s strife in places 
such as the Bihar and Uttar Pradesh states, where corruption 
upends the caste-rule. Her connections to criminals in political 
office currently offer her an unparalleled information network 
stretching from India’s highest halls of power down to her dark-
est alleys. Her principal haven is in Vrindavan, the so-called 
City of Widows. Although the practice of sati (where a wife 
throws herself atop her husband’s funeral pyre) has been largely 
abandoned, Indian wives are still expected to shave their heads, 
forsake all status, never remarry and surrender their possessions 
when their husbands expire. Vrindavan, Krishna’s reputed 
home, is where thousands of these impoverished women go 
to live their remaining lives; most die where they sleep, either 
in the streets or in shanty-hovels. Ratti-Ben makes her haven 
in an abandoned temple in Vrindavan and employs dozens 
of old crones to sing her name during the day. She takes her 
ghouls and vitae from this surfeit of misery. When she does 
offer the Embrace to the rare servant, her progeny is all the 
more eager to strike back at the system that threw her into 
abject poverty for years. Thus, Ratti-Ben draws her strength 
from the venom of others.
Sascha Vykos, Caine’s Angel
Honored by young Tzimisce as among the first to betray its 
sire to the Anarch Revolt, Priscus Sascha Vykos is the Sabbat’s 
most terrible instrument of fear. Certainly, warriors like the 
Black Hand’s Djuhah are deadly adversaries on the battlefield, 
but at least they destroy their adversaries in combat and with 
little cruelty fueling their intentions. Sascha, however, “stud-
ies” its victims and decides which tortures will best send them 
howling into destruction. Then, it begins its ministrations with 
a cold precision that violates their every cell. 
Sascha was born Myca Vykos, heir to Carpathian royalty 
as his father’s first and only son. Fate had him in mind for 
greater things, however, and brought him into the Embrace 
of Symeon of Constantinople. Myca found himself — for 
then, he was still a man — in a city and a time that would 
eventually rival Carthage in legend and glory. Constantinople 
fell under the aegis of three Cainite families, including the 
Obertus Fiends who took Myca in. While he despised his 
new existence and everyone who’d brought him to this fate, 
Myca appreciated the unparalleled opportunity for learning. 
The Obertus Athenaeum was the missing legacy of Alex-
andria’s library and housed unique knowledge thought lost 
to the world. What the books did not teach, Myca learned 
through the complex scheming of the Byzantine courts.


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
97
When Constantinople’s glorious age came to an end, 
Myca left with more than he’d bargained for. The city’s pre-
eminent Cainite was the Toreador Michael, who was as close 
to angelic as any flesh could ever hope to be. Constantinople 
was his vision of Heaven’s reflection on Earth, and he left 
nothing untouched from architecture down to the mortal 
populace. Michael knew of Myca’s boundless thirst and 
appreciation of knowledge and used him as a living record 
to preserve and even emulate Constantinople’s glory in the 
future. Myca, being Tzimisce and visceral in his dreams, 
twisted Michael’s resplendent aspirations of Constantinople 
and fraternity into a vision of empires built with flesh instead 
of stone and solidarity of blood instead of spirit. 
After Constantinople fell, Myca and Symeon became 
“guests” of the Balkan Tzimisce. They valued Myca for 
whatever insight he could offer about Constantinople’s, and 
thus Alexandria’s, knowledge. As history already told, this 
was not to last. Myca, driven by Michael’s dream to help 
build something greater than himself, joined the nascent and 
promising Anarch Revolt. He proved his loyalty to the Sabbat 
by devouring and regurgitating his sire Symeon repeatedly 
before finally diablerizing him. This earned him entry into 
the annals of Sabbat infamy, along with his actions at the 
Convention of Thorns, where he sheared away his masculinity 
and hurled it at the Ventrue Hardestadt in disgust. 
Following Thorns, Myca became Sascha, a sculpted and 
androgynous (if alien) beauty. In the early nights of the struggle, 
Sascha remained among the few Tzimisce who did not abandon 
their Carpathian keeps to the growing Camarilla. Unlike many 
of its Sabbat colleagues, Sascha appreciated and understood the 
necessity of employing mortals for Cainite gain. Many sect mem-
bers, particularly the younger ones, scoffed at the use of kine, 
but Sascha knew that the Camarilla grew strong in influence 
and territory because of their reliance on mortal society. Sascha 
chose to fight Hardestadt and the Camarilla lynchpins at their 
own game, through mortal proxies. It sponsored the Uskoks, 
Senj corsairs and Habsburg-supported pirates, in attacking the 
Venetian and Ottoman shipping lanes. Most often, these pirates 
plundered for greed, but Sascha occasionally employed them to 
attack Cainite-sponsored vessels in the hopes of kidnapping and 
questioning the ghouls of rivals. Eventually, however, Sascha’s 
interests drifted away from playing the Jyhad. It withdrew to 
its haven and emerged only when a passing interest with the 
sect demanded otherwise. Few knew what Sascha was doing; 
fewer really wanted to know.
Sascha reemerged from seclusion during the first Sabbat 
Civil War. Its skills with the witchcraft of the heinous Tremere 
were stronger than ever, and allied Tzimisce suspected Sascha 
had grown in knowledge under the tutelage of Kupala. With 
the signing of the Purchase Pact, Sascha seemed driven in 
new directions with a thirst for arcane knowledge and arche-
ology. Throughout the late 19th and early 20th centuries, 
it sponsored (financially) dozens of expeditions into Egypt, 
Greece and the Middle East. On the very rare occasion, it 
even joined the odd dig in the Holy Land, Lebanon or Syria. 
This did not distract it from its duty, however, for during the 
Second Sabbat Civil War, Sascha served Regent Gorchist 
by eliminating the sect’s more troublesome dissenters. For 
Sascha’s role in the struggle, the signing of the revised Code 
of Milan also saw its appointment to the position of priscus. 
As such, it now travels the world on behalf of the Sabbat, 
dealing with trouble as it sees fit. 
While its actions are brutal, even excessively violent, 
Sascha moves with cold reasoning; it is building Michael’s 
Dream in 1,000 minute ways. Everything it does is for a 
design, from the way it cocks its head while speaking, to the 
way it sloughs the flesh from a victim like pulling a sock from 
a foot. Unfortunately, the complete intricacies of Michael’s 
Dream eludes Sascha’s understanding and drives him to the 
brink of excess. Sascha’s preoccupation with archeology and 
the occult is not an undirected thirst for such vagaries as 
knowledge and power. Sascha seeks to recapture Michael’s 
full lessons and dreams, which fade further from its thoughts 
each passing year. When Constantinople fell, its Christian 
(and later Muslim) invaders scattered much of its wealth and 
wisdom throughout the Western Hemisphere and the Near 
East. Sascha surmises that the full scope of Michael’s vision 
rests somewhere with Constantinople’s stolen legacy. Recently, 
however, Sascha has come to believe that Michael’s legacy lies 
hidden in others such as itself. Now Sascha seeks to recapture 
that knowledge by diablerizing the few remaining survivors 
of Constantinople. This includes the Gangrel Baron Thomas 
Feroux, the Nosferatu Malachite and, most importantly, the 
Dracon himself. Whether this proves Sascha’s greatest coup 
or the beginning of its fall remains to be seen. 
Radu Bistri, Itinerant Cardinal and 
Father of the Purchase Pact
Cardinal Radu Bistri is the rarest of Tzimisce: a diplomat. 
Radu earned the notice of the voivode Visya for his advice on 
how to deal with the Hungarian Ventrue. Visya, a student of 
the slaughter-and-subdue school of politics, Embraced Radu as 
an advisor. Although born a revenant, Radu understood human 
politics well enough to negotiate with the Ventrue and their 
ghouls. In a time when the Hungarian Patricians did not recog-
nize the sovereignty of the Tzimisce, Radu forced them to listen.
Even after his Embrace and his rise to voivode, Radu retained 
enough of his political savvy to serve as the spokesman of the clan 
for several centuries. Although he was the Tzimisce diplomat 
to the outside world, he had no counterpart to mediate disputes 
within the clan. When the younger Fiends rose up against their 
elders, Radu opposed them — at first. But Radu’s political insight 
saved him. While other voivodes objected on principle to the rule 
of their childer — and fell to their fangs — Radu surrendered 
his demesne to the anarchs and joined their cause.
When all but the most stubborn Tzimisce voivodes had 
been toppled, Radu continued to play the diplomat. When 
the rebellious childer of Europe formed the Sabbat, Radu 
created the office of Cardinal of the Land Beyond the Forest 
to oversee Transylvania and the surrounding lands. In his du-
ties, the cardinal proved far too effective: The Tzimisce under 
his guidance were at least coordinated, if not organized. He 
served as Cardinal of the Land Beyond the Forest for barely 
a decade before the regent suggested that his talents might 


Clanbook: Tzimisce
98
be more useful in the rambunctious New World. It didn’t 
take a diplomat to know what the regent wanted. Radu left 
Transylvania for the American East Coast.
The situation in America appalled Radu. While the Sabbat 
had escaped its elders, it had found nothing to replace them. 
No one could keep order, and the Cainites of the New World 
spent their nights diablerizing one another rather than creating 
a domain where they could exist free of their sires. Radu traveled 
all over the new United States, talking to various Cainites who 
had cobbled together some semblance of authority. The 1803 
Purchase Pact, which brought order to a sect obsessed with free-
dom, was the fruit of his years of negotiations. Although Radu 
felt it did too little, the pact did what elders could not — bring 
discipline to the unruly childer of the Sabbat.
In the modern nights, Radu still holds the title of Car-
dinal, though he oversees no specific region. He continues 
to act as a diplomat for the Sabbat. He was involved, though 
not instrumental, in the addition of the Salubri antitribu to 
the Sword of Caine. His current project: negotiating the ac-
ceptance of a dozen elder Gangrel who apparently abandoned 
the Camarilla over its inability to deal with some pressing 
threat. Radu now spends his nights playing at diplomacy in 
this unlikely alliance. 
Minerva Schwalke-Wojtkiewicz, 
Voivode of Clan Tzimisce
The Voivode of Clan Tzimisce is the most powerful 
Fiend in the Sabbat. How is it then that Minerva Schwalke-
Wojtkiewicz is Voivode?
Because she’s just smart enough to get the job and just 
stupid enough to want it.
The Eldest is gone, and Yorak too. The five Voivodes who 
followed them were increasingly inconsequential. The Tzimisce 
Voivode is no longer the undisputed master of the clan. Since 
the Fiends joined the Sabbat, the title has carried little real 
power. In the Final Nights, the Voivode is a Winston Churchill 
without an army. She arouses hatred of the Antediluvians and 
loyalty to the Sword of Caine with immortal speeches, but she 
has no recourse when her words fail to inspire. 
As a mortal in Poland, Minerva wrote jingoistic plays and 
short stories under a male pseudonym, denouncing the partition-
ing of Poland that ended its existence as a state in 1795. Her 
sire Ari Ezbet did not believe the Purchase Pact would hold and 
sought to relocate to Mexico City, where he would establish a 
foundation of sorts to crank out propaganda. Although he was 
disappointed that the writer who had driven him to frenzy with 
“his” words was really a woman, he Embraced her for her turn 
of phrase that could ignite nationalistic passions.
Under Ari’s instruction, Minerva became a fanatic of 
a different stripe. Her lifetime of crafting tropes about “the 
realization of Polish identity” translated easily into a “real-
ization of Tzimisce identity” that could only be achieved 
through Metamorphosis. She became the principal leader 
of the propaganda factory Ari had long ago lost interest in. 
In early 1848, on the night the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo 
was signed, she diablerized her sire after an argument about 
whether the American Army should garrison the city.
Her work with Ari’s pack, renamed the Jagiellonians after 
the death of her sire “at the claws of Lupines,” continued until 
the Second Sabbat Civil War destroyed most of its soldiers. The 
young Cainites of Mexico City, many of them not even Tzimisce, 
flocked to her for instruction in the ways of Metamorphosis. She 
also pleaded with the regent to encourage ritae of unity within the 
sect. Minerva and her surviving students claim credit for spreading 
the ritus of the Festivo dello Estinto beyond the confines of Mexico.
After a pack of Camarilla archons brought Final Death 
to the previous Voivode, the position was held in even lower 
esteem. Only Minerva, a now-destroyed Malkavian antitribu 
and a handful of obviously unsuitable candidates sought the 
title. Minerva traveled all the over the world, visiting such 
luminaries as Velya the Vivisectionist, Vladamir Rustovich, 
Righteous Endeavor, Radu Bistri and Sascha Vykos. None 
of them agreed to endorse her. Although she was obviously 
a faithful adherent to her Path, she was ignorant of Koldunic 
Sorcery — a traditional prerequisite to become Voivode.
Undeterred, Minerva returned to Mexico City and declared 
that she had the support of the elders of the clan. She arranged 
her own confirmation as Voivode. Although none of her supposed 
boosters have publicly disputed her claim, she’s only been Voivode 
for a few months, a blink of an undead eye. She has Embraced 
several of the Mexico City Bratoviches to serve as her honor guard. 
Now, she feverishly petitions the consistory to bolster the crusad-
ing efforts all over America. Minerva pushes a simple four-point 
plan: take North America, take South America, take Europe, 
take the world. She hopes her vague, ambitious plan, along with 
her generous instruction in the Path of Metamorphosis, will be 
enough to silence those who could contradict her dubious claim.
Minerva brings the same feverish indecision to her own 
form as she does to her fragile Voivodate. She completely rear-
ranges herself at least once a month. Her current incarnation: 
a hairless, nine-foot-tall skeletal nightmare with two sphincter-
like mouths for eyes. Her skin and fangs glow in the moonlight.
Regent Melinda Galbraith
Regent Galbraith is dead.…
The annual Palla Grande, held on All Hallow’s Eve each 
year, draws packs and covens from across North America 
into Mexico City. It is the Sabbat’s Christmas Day and 
Halloween all rolled into one; it is a bloody celebration 
of Cainite pertinacity. The regent and the highest cardi-
nals, prisci, bishops and archbishops also host the major 
events, including a Blood Feast, a Blood Bath and various 
immortality plays performed by the sect’s artisans. The 
millennial Palla Grande celebration was supposed to be the 
largest yet, an affirmation that the Sabbat had survived 
into the 21st Century. It was a grim festival of jubilation 
and a warning that the Sword of Caine must be vigilant 
against their greatest threat, the Antediluvians. With New 
York lost and unknown tumult in domains to the East, the 
Sabbat needed a reason for these festivities. Few realized, 
however, that the sect was about to suffer another blow, 
the murder of Toreador antitribu Regent Galbraith herself. 
The festivities began at sunset as expected, with Regent 
Galbraith granting audiences to select Cainites before the Palla 


Chapter Three: Among Fiends
99
Grande was underway. Zachary Sikorsky, a Tzimisce drag queen 
with an uncanny skill for impersonations, was to meet with 
Galbraith to help her construct her greatest costume yet. He was 
supposed to fleshcraft her into an angel, a creature of precise and 
aching beauty, replete with fine bone wings. Upon entering her 
chambers, however, he discovered Galbraith’s corpse turning to 
ash and an arcane symbol painted in blood on the wall.
With little time to spare and the Palla Grande near commence-
ment, Sikorsky assumed the regent’s form and carried on as her. It 
was a decision made in sheer panic; Sikorsky knew that he — as 
the last person to see her and as a member of a New York pack 
now ousted after the Camarilla’s reclamation of its city — would 
be blamed and tried for the regent’s murder. At first, Sikorsky 
assumed the regent’s role for the evening, allowing the Sabbat 
one moment of celebration following New York’s fall. When the 
evening ended, however, Sikorsky realized he couldn’t confide in 
anyone if he didn’t know who had destroyed the regent. To this 
night, he has remained Melinda Galbraith, Regent of the Sabbat, 
and scared all to hell that eventually, somebody will out him.
Zachary Sikorsky, Regent of the Sabbat
Background: …Long live Regent Galbraith. 
Zachary Sikorsky always knew he was different, even as a 
child. Call it stereotypical, but he loved dressing up in his mother’s 
clothing whenever she wasn’t around. Of course, she beat him 
pretty hard when she discovered the make-up he’d forgotten to 
clean off, but she thought she was doing him a favor by battering 
him into heterosexuality. When Zachary passed into adolescence, 
he discovered words like fag and queer were aimed at him. While 
that itself was difficult enough to cope with, Zachary realized he 
was more comfortable pretending and even acting like a woman. 
He enjoyed being a man physically, but emotionally, he liked 
dressing in women’s clothing and playing feminine.
By the time he was 16, Zachary was out on the streets, 
hustling for a living. His mother threw him out of the house 
when he came out to her. Zachary was a popular commodity 
on the street; already slight and hairless, he played his female 
rolls well. When he dressed in women’s clothing, it was easier 
for his closet-case clientele to pretend they were seducing a she 
instead of a he. Eventually, Zachary reached the age where he 
could work in bars instead of back alleys. He spent the next few 
years performing on the drag queen circuit and at cabarets in 
New York. That’s when he earned the attentions of the Sacred 
Band, a gay- and lesbian-predominant Sabbat pack that took 
a liking to Zachary’s talented antics on stage. 
Zachary, although young to the Sabbat, adjusted perfectly. 
His new nature as a Fiend allowed him to make those tiny 
alterations needed to make himself simply divine, but the 
impetus to be a drag queen remained. He loved the clothing 
and acting with a mix of Marylyn Monroe flash, Julie Newmar 
class and Bette Davis sass. This Palla Grande, the third of his 
young existence, was supposed to be his best show yet; he’d 
already entertained many within the Sabbat with his dead-on 
impersonations of Regent Galbraith (down to her Spanish 
temperament) and other Sabbat notables. Unfortunately, his 
skills have now placed him in a precarious position.
For the past few months, Zachary has been playing Regent 
Galbraith. During these periods, he retreats into “meditative” 
seclusion and allows “her” retainers to speak on the regent’s 
behalf. Although he’s grown more skilled at playing Galbraith, 
Zachary is also becoming more panicked and paranoid. He fears 
his every word and action betray his identity, but the charade 
continues for one more night. Zachary fears this “masquerade” 
will eventually come to an end once someone uncovers his 
ruse and slays him in righteous indignation.
Image: Galbraith is a Spanish beauty who keeps her 
brown hair short in that no-nonsense look. She wears the fin-
est contemporary fashions with an eye for the conservative yet 
complimentary cut. She looks more like an art gallery owner 
than the Regent of the Sabbat. Thanks to Zachary’s advanced 
touch with Vicissitude, he possesses a physical equivalent to 
the Regent’s majestic bearing. 
Roleplaying Hints: You are Regent Galbraith; you are 
Regent Galbraith. You are merciless, ruthless and stern. You put 
one hand on your hip in that provocative manner when you’re 
angry; you like to roll your “r’s,” and oh, don’t forget to turn on 
your heel when you walk away. Why is he looking at me that 
way? Does he suspect something? You are Regent Galbraith. Keep 
it together, and look distracted. Maybe people won’t bother you 
then. Don’t forget to flash that feral smile when someone makes 
a joke. No, that’s too much teeth, tone it down a notch. You 
are Regent Galbraith… and you are scared to death… again. 
Sire: Daniel Murphy
Nature: Celebrant (Director*)
Demeanor: Survivor (Judge*)
Generation: 12th
Embrace: 1996
Apparent Age: early 30s*
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2 
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 5, Appearance 5* 
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3 
Talents: Alertness 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 3, Empathy 2, Subterfuge 4 
Skills: Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, Melee 1, Performance 4
Knowledges: Linguistics 3, Occult 2, Politics 1


Clanbook: Tzimisce
100
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Presence 3, Vicissitude 3 
Backgrounds: Allies 5*, Contacts 5*, Herd 5*, Influence 5*, 
Resources 5*, Retainers 3*, Sabbat Status 5*
Virtues: Conviction 3, Instinct 2, Courage 3 
Morality: The Path of Lilith 5
Willpower: 7
Note: All entries with the asterisk (*) are for Galbraith.
Righteous Endeavor
Background: The father of this young Fiend-to-be was a 
witch-hunter who was more than a little upset to learn that his 
wife was a witch. Every night for two months, young Righteous 
witnessed his mother’s torture at the hands of his father and read 
himself to sleep with her copy of Liber Spirituum. Vindicating 
Freud, Righteous Endeavor Clay grew up to become the most 
notorious witch-hunter/witch of his day.
Doubtless, he was one of Beelzebub’s favorites, but he had to 
practice his craft in private after confessing his entire coven. He 
visited one Sabbath after another, partaking of the Black Mass at 
night, then bringing the militia around the witches’ homes the 
next morning. Eventually, his fame prevented such infiltrations. 
New England knew him as a persistent witch-hunter whose stat-
ure defied the horrible accusations thrown at him by the witches 
he’d captured. Witches behaved themselves whenever he came 
to town and quietly speculated about who really owned his soul. 
While investigating “uncleane Ocurenses” in western 
Massachusetts, Righteous Endeavor Clay heard rumors of a 
great society of witches beyond the borders of the colony. Mak-
ing his foray into “Indian lands,” he quickly located the coven 
(he’d killed and scalped his guide about three hours into the 
trip, but given the size of the witches’ bonfire, he discovered it 
nonetheless). He discerned no unholy rites, but surely their fire 
dance marked them as Hell’s own. Though it was not the one 
he was looking for, Righteous Endeavor had found the Sabbat. 
Through the centuries, Righteous Endeavor (having dropped 
his superfluous surname soon after his Embrace) rose, through numer-
ous successful investigations, to become a priscus within the Sabbat. 
He currently travels all along the East Coast, leading ritae at various 
Cainite gatherings and inspiring the packs with speeches about the 
righteousness of their cause. He still conducts his witch-hunts, and 
his stature allows him to do so away from the auspices of the Sabbat 
Inquisition. Once, he relied on the “infiltrate and convict” approach 
of his mortal career, but now, infernalists give him a wide berth. In 
the modern nights, his favorite tactic is to deputize packs — usually 
those loitering around Blood Feasts, working to no good purpose. 
Assisting Righteous Endeavor is simultaneously an education in 
investigation and humility, but it’s an enviable credential for any 
Sabbat to claim: His “fellow crusaders” do the bulk of the tracking 
and often end up capturing the witches themselves. The confes-
sion, however, Righteous Endeavor invariably claims for himself. 
Image: Shoulder-length brown hair, considerate eyes and a 
beak for a nose — stack these on an unhealthy, gaunt frame and 
you’ll have Righteous Endeavor. Among the undead, he wears 
a black wool cloak with heavy collars over a black frock coat, a 
black waistcoat, gray breeches and white stockings. When mov-
ing among mortals, his attire is more current but no less dismal. 
In any situation, he insists on wearing his tall, black felt hat. 
Roleplaying Hints: As you’ve done since your breathing days, 
you’ve rationalized away the thrill you feel while eliciting a confession. 
Beating a sinner with a whip (the worse her sins, the better) sends 
tingles through your legs, but in your mind, you believe you’re just 
good at what you do. No such rationalization governs your relationship 
with the Beast — you hope that the irony brings Lucifer three smiles. 
You feel a desperate urgency whenever you’re involved in 
a hunt, which is always. The priorities of the rest of the Sabbat 
must be put on hold if you need assistance during an investigation. 
You feel no remorse for whatever interruptions you might cause. 
Usually, your stature guarantees the compliance of whomever 
you press into service. If you ever feel frustrated, think about the 
Nosferatu Prudence Stone, one of the lucky few to have escaped 
you and continue the pursuit with renewed vigor.
Sire: Ezra Howland
Nature: Sadist
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1713
Apparent Age: mid-50s
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 5, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 4, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 4, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Empathy 4, Expression 2, 
Intimidation 5, Leadership 5, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Etiquette 4, Firearms 2, Melee 5, Security 1, Stealth 3, 
Survival 2
Knowledges: Academics 4, Investigation 4, Law 2, Medicine 4, 
Occult 4, Politics 4, Science 3
Disciplines: Animalism 3, Auspex 4, Thaumaturgy 5, Vicissitude 3
Thaumaturgical Paths: Path of Blood 5, Path of Phobos 3, 
Taking of the Spirit 4
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Resources 3, Rituals 4, Sabbat Status 5 
Virtues: Conviction 1, Instinct 5, Courage 5
Morality: Path of Metamorphosis 4
Willpower: 8


™
Must sleep in at least two 
handfuls of native soil
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-58846-202-1
WW2361  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
A History of Evil
From the anarchs who forged the Sabbat to dreaded Dracula himself, 
the Tzimisce have carved an indelible place for themselves among 
the society of the Damned. The modern nights have caught up with 
these monsters, however, who have fallen from their place as masters 
of hoary estates to degenerates bound by the callous whims of the 
Sabbat. Theirs is a nightly struggle, not only to survive, but also to 
escape their grim destiny and once again rise to prominence.
Clanbook: Tzimisce Includes:
• The practices of the modern Tzimisce, including their role as 
spiritual leaders of the Sabbat
• Material on those tainted by contact with the Tzimisce, including 
the revenant families and the Old Clan
• Unsettling new applications of Vicissitude, schemes and the clan 
lore of the Fiends
A History of Evil
From the anarchs who forged the Sabbat to dreaded Dracula himself, 
the Tzimisce have carved an indelible place for themselves among 
the society of the Damned. The modern nights have caught up with 
these monsters, however, who have fallen from their place as masters 
of hoary estates to degenerates bound by the callous whims of the 
Sabbat. Theirs is a nightly struggle, not only to survive, but also to 
escape their grim destiny and once again rise to prominence.
Clanbook: Tzimisce Includes:
• The practices of the modern Tzimisce, including their role as 
spiritual leaders of the Sabbat
• Material on those tainted by contact with the Tzimisce, including 
the revenant families and the Old Clan
• Unsettling new applications of Vicissitude, schemes and the clan 
lore of the Fiends
