TM


Contents
1
™
By James and Ellen Kiley
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Gangrel
2
Credits
Written by: James and Ellen Kiley
Developed by: Justin Achilli
Editor: Cynthia Summers
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten
Interior Art: Mike Danza, Richard Kane Ferguson, 
Michael Gaydos, Leif Jones, and Christopher Shy
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten
Special Thanks
Tim “Snake Fighting” Avers, is very scary fighting snake 
rolled up newspaper setting on fire.
Ken “Out-of-Towner” Cliffe, for continuing his habit of 
party-dodging.
Rebecca “Nutritionist” Schaefer, for dragging Chad out of 
the damn house before he ate one more bowl.
Brian “Joe Six-Pack” Glass, for bringing random beer in the 
homemade carrying case.
Get Bent
The raw, bone-chilling, ache-inducing, wet-ass, pre-
SuperBowl weather.
© 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Re-
production without the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for 
blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal 
use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire 
the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, World of Darkness and 
Aberrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the 
Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, 
Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith 
the Great War, Trinity, Guide to the Camarilla, Guide to the 
Sabbat, World of Darkness Blood Dimmed Tides, A World 
of Darkness, Laws of the Night, Children of the Night and 
Clanbook Gangrel are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and 
text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product in 
these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright 
concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and 
themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction 
and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader dis-
cretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.
games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Contents
Aftermath of Independence	 	
	
	
	
	
	
   4
Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea:  
A History of the Gangrel Clan	 	
	
	
	
	
12
Chapter Two: Inside  the Gangrel	
	
	
	
 40
Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men	
80
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Gangrel
4


Aftermath of Independence
5
My shitkicker boots make a shuffle-then-thump sound on the city sidewalk. 
The sound isn’t alien — they do have cement where I’m from. What’s fasci-
nating is the chorus of echoes my footsteps set off, reverberating through 
this corridor of glass and steel. If I stomp real good and listen real close, 
I can catch the echo whizzing back and forth across the street three times 
before the noise of the city overwhelms it. That game was fun, until the de-
livery truck roared past.
I must look like a rube, or worse, a cheap tourist. Who else would be walk-
ing around downtown on a Wednesday night with an armload of white-handled 
shopping bags, a baseball cap and these boots? It’s a good thing I pay cash. 
The department store clerks might think I’d stolen a credit card. I don’t care 
where they think the cash came from, so long as they don’t sic the rent-a-
cops on me. That would get complicated.
I might as well be a tourist. I only come into town twice a year to pick up 
consumables, comestibles and indispensables. On my way back to the subway sta-
tion, I mentally check through my purchases. It would suck to get halfway home 
before I realized I’d forgotten something. Five pairs of jeans — I’m hard on 
denim. One pair of chinos, which pass for dressed up. Three white dress shirts, 
five flannel shirts, needles, buttons, thread — I may be a walking stereotype, but 
I can and do sew on my own buttons, thank you. Batteries, all shapes and sizes. 
Good soap, deodorant, and cologne — the trick to smelling like a human. People 
aren’t stupid. Even if they don’t know they can, they can smell a predator, and 
then they get panicky. Camouflage is the key. Not just sight, but smell and sound, 
too. That’s why I bother to juggle this last bag with a greasy burger and fries 
— who expects to see a vampire carting around fast food?
Another two blocks to the subway, 45 minutes underground, then another 
eight blocks to the parking lot where I left my van. I hate leaving it so far away 
— it’s got everything I own in it — but it isn’t exactly built for city driving. 
My pride and joy is a ’69 Chevy Sportsvan — no power brakes, no power steer-
ing, and it might as well be built out of cast iron. I once hit a really pissed-off 
Aftermath of  
Independence


Clanbook: Gangrel
6
werewolf with it at about 60 miles an hour, and it felt like I’d gone over a speed 
bump. I call them werewolves, and not because I think that’s what the furry bas-
tards prefer to be called, but because when I see one slavering in the moonlight, 
I think, “Oh, fuck, werewolf!” and not “Oh, fuck, Lupine!” He did leave a dent in 
my bumper, though.
One more block. I’ve got it pretty good, all things considered. I’m about 
the only Gangrel I know with a steady job. It’s not much — I’m just the night 
ranger at the National Park. I wish they’d come up with a better job title than 
that, because I’ve heard all the ‘80s guitar-rock jokes I can take. Still, the 
job means a small but steady paycheck and a secluded place to park my van on 
the grounds. Management becomes very understanding of your odd schedule 
when the senator comes for a midnight nature walk, and his whiny kids get 
to see the deer and hear the wolves howl no matter how much noise they make 
tromping through the forest. I know there are werewolves around, but so far 
they’ve left me alone. I guess we’ve got an understanding in place — as long 
as I don’t fang the kiddies who visit the park or devour wolf cubs, they’ll 
turn a blind eye when the occasional poacher goes missing, or adventurous 
teens and lonely single mothers leave a little paler than they came in.
The mouth of a dark alley looms ahead, mid-block. As I pass, a quick slith-
er of movement catches my eye. I freeze, and the shape freezes too. A voice 
that sounds like it’s been scraped from the bottom of a barrel drifts to my 
ears. “Everett.” I know that voice.
	
	
	
	
*	
	
	
*	
	
	
*	
I’m lying on the forest floor, face pressed into the rotting leaves and 
twigs. It’s night, but the usual woodland sounds are hushed — something’s 
on the hunt. In fact, she’s standing right over me, her clawed feet just inch-
es from my face.
She’s been following me for some time now. I’ve seen her every couple nights 
for the past few weeks. I thought maybe she wanted to hook up. When I finally got 
the pluck to introduce myself, it turned out that what she really wanted to do was 
chase me through the forest until I died. So here I am, watching my blood soak 
into the humus, wondering, if this is what the bitch does for foreplay….
Then I can hear a new noise. I can’t lift my head to see, but it sounds 
like booted feet, not bare and clawed like hers. For a wild moment, I imag-
ine an ax-toting ranger come to rescue me, but the boots come to a stop not 
far from her and stay put. The man’s gravelly voice sinks quickly to my level. 
“This is him?”
Her feet turn to face him, as I imagine the rest of her does. “Yep.”
There’s a grunt from above. “Doesn’t look too likely. I wouldn’t pick him.” 
I am strangely offended.
My soon-to-be-murderer is patient. “I didn’t ask you to approve him, She-
perd. I asked you to help me stand the watch.”
The man, Sheperd, I guess, squats down, taking some time to fold his bulk 
down low enough to look at my face. He’s none to pleasant to look at — I wish 
he’d stayed standing. “You’ve beat him up pretty good, Jane. Think he’ll make it?”
Her answer is couched in an amused tone. “I needed to make sure he wasn’t 
the type to roll over and die. He’ll be fine. They all make it unless you kill them 
outright beforehand, stupid.” I fail to see the humor in the current situation, 


Aftermath of Independence
7
and I am not feeling fine. My heartbeat 
is fluttering, and it’s becoming dif-
ficult to keep my eyes in focus.
Sheperd stands back up. I am mo-
mentarily grateful that his face will 
not be the last thing I see before 
dying. “I’ll help you keep watch, Janey. 
But tell me you got somebody’s okay 
on this?”
She laughs outright this time. 
“Who is there to ask permission, 
Sheperd? Do you see any princes 
here? Hear one, or smell one? The 
Gangrel do not ask here, Sheperd. We 
simply do. If I am to ask anyone for 
the right, it should be the intended 
childe himself.”
Jane crouches beside me. Her face 
swims in and out of my vision, her 
glowing red eyes multiplying dizzily. Her 
voice comes in clear, calm, and I fas-
ten on to that like a drowning man to 
driftwood. “It’s a simple choice. Die, or 
survive. Do you want to survive?”
I lifted my head from the leaves 
with my last strength. I remem-
ber saying, “Yes.” 
She was wrong, 
though — it 
wasn’t, isn’t a 
simple choice. 
*	
*	
*
I step into 
the alley, out 
of the light. 
My vision 
blurs 
for 
a moment; when it clears, I can seem 
him perfectly. “Sheperd.” I should 
have smelled him a mile away, but his 
sour, oily scent is alarmingly similar 
to the odor wafting off the French 
fries I’m carrying. If I’m not mis-
taken, those are also the exact same 
boots he was wearing that night, so 
many years ago.
He shambles out of the doorway 
where he’d hidden from sight. I’d 
forgotten just how large he is. “You 
didn’t present yerself to the prince, 
Everett,” he growls.
I shrug, packages still draped 
along my arms. “I’ve been here two 
nights. I haven’t fed, and I don’t in-
tend to. And the prince never attends 
Elysium mid-week.”
Sheperd smiles, and it isn’t a nice 
smile. He enjoys his job far too much. 
“Rules are rules.” He moves closer, 
sidling along the building wall, kicking 
trash out of his way as he walks.
“Bullshit,” I reply. “I was here 
last winter, and six months before 
that. I’m like clockwork, Sheperd, 
and no one’s complained about my 
shopping habits 
before.” I keep 
still, for the 
moment. He’s 
not fast enough 
to cut off my 
exit.
Sheperd 
grunts an 
admission. 
“That was 
before,” 
he says.


Clanbook: Gangrel
8
“Before what?” I ask. I know what he’s going to say. I try to calm 
myself down; white shopping bags flapping around in dark alleys might draw un-
wanted attention.
“Before you left the Camarilla,” Sheperd mumbles. He has the grace to look 
at his shoes for a moment, as though even he knows just how artificial this 
little scene is.
“Sheperd, this is crazy. Do you think I’m some kind of spy? Does the 
prince?” I watch him carefully. His suddenly guarded look answers my ques-
tion. I don’t believe I can keep the exasperation out of my voice. “Let me 
run through the logic for you. You’re Gangrel, too, Sheperd. Have you suddenly 
turned into a Sabbat stooge?”
He practically snarls at me: “No.”
“Then what makes you think that I have?  What have I ever done that might 
give him that idea? And why does he let you run around loose if he thinks 
we’re all devil-loving traitors?” I’m practically flailing now, arms flung wide 
in a messianic pose. I knew there were bad feelings over the affair, but I 
hadn’t expected things to get this bad so quickly.
Sheperd stops dead in his tracks. Beads of blood sweat form on his fore-
head and slowly trickle down his temples. When he speaks, his voice is forced. 
“The prince can…trust me.…”
My heart sinks as I hear those words. I can feel the anger welling up 
from deep inside — anger at myself for walking into this, at Sheperd and his 
paranoid prince for setting it up, even at Xaviar for causing this whole damn 
mess in the first place. “You fucking idiot!” my mouth is shouting. “You let 
him do that to you? You let him chain you up like a pet pit bull, so that he can 
sic you on whoever he wants? What kind of Gangrel are you?”
He moves faster than I thought he could, or maybe I’m just too busy 
spouting off to have caught the first hint of movement. I whirl around, but too 
late; his bulk is interposed between me and the street. Claws have sprouted 
from his fingertips — he wasn’t going to just let me walk out of here before, 
but now I’ve made him mad. I drop my bags, finally, but not before he rakes 
one of them open with a vicious swipe.
I block his next two strikes, left — right. It’s not easy; Sheperd is 
strong as a bull and those claws are sharp. I’m faster than he is, but I 
can’t keep this up for long. I leap up, grabbing the end of a dangling fire escape 
ladder to deliver a two-footed kick to his head. It’s enough to knock him back 
a few feet, and give me a second to consider my options. I could go up the fire 
escape, but Sheperd can probably climb faster, because he’s stronger. The two 
doors I can see are metal, and if they’re locked I’ll be trapped in an alcove 
with no room to maneuver. Ten yards behind me, the alley ends in a brick wall. 
If I’m going to get out of here, it’s got to be through Sheperd.
He’s back at me now, claws swinging like scythes. I give ground back into 
the alley, sniffing out what I can of what’s behind me while devoting hand-eye 
coordination to keeping clear of Sheperd’s nasty fists. I catch a promising odor 
along the wall to my left: bleach, a little mildew, the slightest hint of old vomit. 
I get a little too distracted by my nose, and Sheperd catches me upside the head. 
There’s pain, and blood — it was a glancing blow, but I think he just folded my 
scalp in half. I can see my anger now, like a red film in front of my vision. I 


Aftermath of Independence
9
force the Beast back down — if I frenzy now, I’ll throw myself at him, and 
he’ll rip me apart.
Sheperd takes a moment to gloat over first blood, and I take the opening. I 
lunge to my left, hand out, hoping my senses haven’t led me astray. My hand 
closes over the smooth wood of a mop handle, and I know I’ve got a chance. 
Flooding my muscles with as much blood as I can, I launch a quick flurry of 
attacks with wood, fists and feet. I catch Sheperd by surprise; I’m not hurt-
ing him, but I drive him back. Three steps, then another, and one more bring 
us back to just about where we started. A feinted kick to the knee and a real 
backhand to the chin rock him back one last step. His gigantic foot comes 
crashing down with all his weight into the pile of my belongings. The flat 
crunch of crushed glass is all the warning I get.
An almost visible plume of scent rises into the air from the pulverized 
cologne bottle. Even though I knew it was coming, it still nearly makes me 
gag. Sheperd turns around to see what the hell he just stepped in. I bring the 
mop handle down on my knee, snap the wood in two, and drive the sharp end up 
under Sheperd’s ribcage and into his heart. For a panicked moment, I’m not 
sure that it worked, but it just takes him a moment to go rigid and topple.
I slump against the bricks for a moment, letting the anger and fear seep 
out of my body and into the cold clay. It doesn’t look like anyone has noticed our 
little dust-up. I glance down at Sheperd; his face is a strange mix of hatred and 
resignation, his naked talons tensed and bent. Grunting with the effort, I haul 
his heavy ass further down the alley, out of sight from the street. His deputies 
might find him before morning. I’m hungry now, and for moment my fangs dis-
tend as I stare at the blood pooling in Sheperd’s shirt. I force the teeth back 
up into my head — the last thing I need, or any Gangrel needs, is to reinforce 
the rumors flying around by doing something so stupid as diablerizing a sheriff. 
It’s not Sheperd’s fault, anyway. He just got caught flatfooted, in the wrong place 
at the wrong time when Xaviar dropped his little bombshell — whatever that was. 
How many other Gangrel are paying for our freedom, and don’t even know why?
Moving stiffly, I find my hat, fit my scalp back over my head properly, and use 
the hat to hold it in place while it heals. That’ll take a few nights. I change 
shirts quickly, mopping the blood off my face with the old one and tossing 
it back down the alley. The last thing I need tonight is a hassle with some 
well-meaning token-taker who thinks I should pay a visit to County General. I 
stuff what I can into the remaining bags.
“That was 75 bucks you just cost me, Sheperd,” I grumble over my shoul-
der. “Tell the prince he’s lost my shopping dollar. I won’t be back.”
Sheperd’s reply wouldn’t have been very witty anyway. I limp out of the al-
ley and the half-block to the subway. I never really need to come to the city. 
Just once in a while, it was nice to see the crowds of people, to walk through 
brightly lit, bustling shopping centers, to maybe catch a show, and, most im-
portant, to see some other Kindred for a change of pace.
Telling Jane about this isn’t going to be easy when, or if, I see her again. 
I think next time I’ll have to order my wardrobe over the Internet.


Clanbook: Gangrel
10


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
11
Stone, Steppe,      
and Sea:  
A History of the 
Gangrel Clan
This is an idiotic thing to do. It’s probably going to 
get me killed. But if I don’t take notes on some of what 
I’ve heard, I know I’ll forget it. At least some of it. And 
for Chrissakes, if I’m going to live forever I’m going to 
be really pissed if I can’t remember everything I was 
told. Yes, now the only thing going through my head is: 
If I write all this stuff down there’s no way I’ll live forever. 
This project formally started a few years ago when I 
found a rambling set of papers written by someone call-
ing himself Lord Ashton, ’95 or ’96. I don’t think that 
Lord Ashton was altogether sane when he wrote what 
he wrote. I scanned a few of his more amusing screeds 
and e-mailed them around to various dead friends on 
the Net. I’ve got some of their responses here and there 
below. It looks like on the whole Ashton was right — in 
the grand sweep — but if the people I’ve talked to can 
be believed, he fucked up several of the details. I’m go-
ing to try to distill reasonable truth out of the stuff I’ve 
read, both in e-mails I’ve received from older vampires, 
from Ashton’s writings and the commentary on it, a few 
conversations I’ve had with older Kindred, and history 
and common sense. I don’t guarantee it’s unassailable, 
but it’s the best picture I can piece together out of the 
amalgam of myth, history and bullshit that I’ve gathered 
over the last 50 years.
The savage in man is never quite eradicated
— Thoreau
Axe and Javelin
I don’t know much archaeology or cultural anthro-
pology. When I was alive, the subjects bored me, and 
now that I’ve got the perspective to appreciate them, it’s 
too damned bright out to do any field work. I’ve done a 
fair amount of reading since I died, though. The scientific 
estimates I’ve explored put Caine’s murder of Abel, and 
God’s curse — if you’re into this sort of thing — around 
10,000 years ago. Or maybe 10,000 BC, which would 
be 12,000 years ago. This stuff is all legend. It may be 
that none of it happened. Hell, I’ve only heard the name 
of one reliable witness — “Pard” — and when I went 
searching him out, I made it as far as the Sahara before 
panicking and giving up. 
One of the things I need to think about at this point 
is the real history of reality. That sounds stupid, I know. I 
can put it another way to make my problem clearer: Was 
Bishop Ussher right? Did the Creation happen on Friday, 
October 12 of 4004 BC? If Kindred are really the children 
of Caine, then we — okay, I — have to consider how 
closely the history of the world adheres to Judeo-Christian 
myth. Because if we’re really the children of Caine in any 
sense, that means at least part of the Biblical creation is 


Clanbook: Gangrel
12
true in some sense, and that throws a lot of science out 
the window. If we’re the children of Caine, and Caine’s 
the son of Adam, and Adam is the first man, created by 
God, then maybe God really did put the dinosaur fossils 
in place to fool archaeologists. Or do we take it all as 
allegory and assume that the Antediluvians are maybe 
10,000 years old, and see where that leads the discussion? 
That’s my preference. But there has to be a truth under 
there someplace. We are vampires. Sunlight does burn us, 
and moonlight, which is just reflected sunlight, does not. 
Starlight does not. Videotapes of sunlight do not. There 
is something mystical about the sun. Scientists don’t talk 
much about such things. I don’t think I’m going to be 
able to adequately figure out the line between scientific 
truth and the supernatural world of the Kindred. I’ll try 
to collate the stories and hypotheses I’ve heard, in any 
case. I’m sure my sources have lied to me, repeatedly, but 
perhaps if we average the contradictory stories out we’ll 
see a bit of truth. For the sake of discussion, say the first 
vampires came about during the late Stone Age. In fact, 
we’ll make a few more grandiose assumptions, out of the 
Book of Nod: that Enoch existed between 10,000 and 8000 
BC, that Caine ruled it, that the Third Generation killed 
the Second Generation there, and that Caine cursed them.
Enoch
I’ll start with Ashton’s commentary on our fabled 
progenitor, “Ennoia.” In Gnostic mythology, it’s worth 
noting that “Ennoia” represents the female half of God. 
I can’t imagine that our Ennoia is that Ennoia, but one 
does hear regular references to our Antediluvian as 
“Mother Nature.” I’m not convinced that Ennoia isn’t 
a feminization of Enoch, who the Book of Nod names as 
one of the Second Generation. Perhaps she was one of 
his mortal children, or a favored vampiric childe. 
Ashton describes Ennoia as a child of Lilith raised 
by a pack of wolves. Leaving aside Biblical commentary 
on the whole Lilith issue and my opinion of feminists 
who’ve adopted this myth as their flag, consider what 
Ashton continues with: “[Ennoia] took a mate from the 
pack and… bore him children… and it is from them 
that Lupines trace their ancestry.” This, apparently, 
explains the “special relationship” that Lupines and 
Gangrel have. I don’t know to what Ashton was refer-
ring when writing this bit, but I’ve got to assume that 
he had something very specific in mind. We don’t have 
a special relationship with Lupines. If you nuzzle up to 
a werewolf and try to be his buddy, odds are good that 
he’ll rip you to tatters. But it becomes more complex. 
Ennoia allegedly spent time in Enoch, the First City, 
after ditching the wolves. She slept with several men and 
bore them a few children before leaving the city due to the 
discord she’d caused. So, according to Ashton, she slept 
around, bore children, and then gave the kids to the men 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
13
and left town. So none of them realized that she was preg-
nant? Did she have kids by each man all at the same time? 
(I suppose that’s no less likely than her having werewolf kids 
by a wolf father.…) But here’s the kicker — Ashton says 
these kids were rejected by their parents and became the 
Gypsies. Hasn’t this guy read a history book? The Rroma, 
so-called “Gypsies,” came out of India during the 10th or 
11th century. There aren’t references to them existing at all 
before this, unless you count one myth they spread around 
that they were the descendants of the innkeeper that told 
Mary and Joseph he had no room for them. Even then, 
that dates them back to, well, 1 AD. Enoch must’ve fallen 
before the rise of the Pharaohs, which even your ancient 
conspiracy mavens agree was around 6000 BC. That’s a 
long gap to explain away.
Diaspora
Archaeologists say the earliest cities were contempo-
raries of the Mesopotamian city of Ur, which existed around 
4000 BC. That gives a four-millennia period after Enoch 
during which humankind had been hunting and gather-
ing and maybe building the occasional farming village. In 
any kind of hunter-gatherer society, Gangrel must have 
been virtual gods; even in comparison to other vampires, 
the Gangrel stood out as the ones who could do the most 
important things. They could travel with a nomadic group; 
they could help mortal hunters find the best prey; and they 
could stand up to any challenge. Of course, they couldn’t 
travel by day, but that’s a different story.…
Cainite Legend
I have a pretty plain opinion on the Kindred legends 
about the fall of Enoch, and about Ennoia’s relation-
ship with the Ravnos Antediluvian, whom some call 
Ravana — I think they’re mostly specious or legend 
misinterpreted as fact. I’ll discuss this more later when 
we talk about the Rroma. For the time being, here’s the 
legendry, as I understand it. Ennoia and Ravana were 
sister and brother in some sense. After the Ancients 
killed the Second Generation and Caine cursed them, 
the siblings wandered westward, onto the vast steppe 
of central Asia. They encountered native tribes, mostly 
nomads and wanderers, and they found sustenance and 
companionship in them. They Embraced childer, cre-
ating the creatures we now think of as Methuselahs of 
the Gangrel and Ravnos clans. A few myths place the 
number of fourth-generation Gangrel at four or five, but 
I believe that number might be too conservative. As I 
have said before and will say again, the only witnesses 
aren’t talking. Legends say Ennoia did the same thing 
to her prospective childer that most Gangrel now do 
to their own: She Embraced them and then abandoned 
them for a while. Oh, sure, she watched from a distance 
or through the eyes of animals to make sure that the new 
childe was holding up under the strain. And when it was 
obvious that the neonate would be able to survive on 
his own, our progenitor came to him and explained his 
true nature and heritage. Now, this legend might well 
be wrong — it strikes me as quite likely that it was made 
up to justify the practice of abandoning childer after the 
fact. Let’s face it — many Gangrel are lax sires at best.
Something happened out there. Nobody knows 
exactly what. Either Ennoia and Ravana just had a 
falling-out, or one of them became infatuated with the 
other and that other rejected the first’s advances, or 
maybe they fought over a favored servant. If you believe 
the legends, something happened to drive them to one 
another’s throats. They fought for decades; they flung 
their childer at one another, and even encouraged their 
childer to Embrace new fledglings as soldiers. Ennoia’s 
broods were far stronger, by all accounts, but Ravana was 
far more cunning and wielded the powers of deception. 
At last, Ravana called down some kind of unholy 
devastation from the sky to destroy or disable most of 
Ennoia’s forces. The handful that survived fled west into 
Europe or Africa. By the few accounts that I’ve heard 
— remember, this stuff is sketchy — the survivors then 
fought amongst themselves, scattering north, south and 
west. Those who went north latched onto the progeni-
tors of Siberian tribes and the Vikings. Those who went 
south prowled the African plains above the Sahara or, if 
you like Ashton’s interpretation, perhaps they became 
the shapechangers of the Serengeti. The few vampires 
who fled eastward were (perhaps incorrectly) presumed 
An Inscription
An acquaintance of mine found an inscription 
deep within an empty, tomblike cave on the shores 
of the Caspian Sea. Her best estimates say the cave 
has been empty for about 300 years. The writing was 
a pre-Alexandrian script, she tells me. After research 
with scholars familiar with old Turkic and Iranian 
texts, she put together the following translation. I 
have some theories about its origin, but for the time 
being I’m keeping my mouth shut. 
The great spider king gave me his silk when I was a 
boy. As a man I tired of its taste and spat myself from his 
court. The spider hunted the tiger queen and her pride. As 
the tiger queen had done me no wrong, I put an arrow in 
the spider’s eye, spilling his fluid anew. His hunters struck 
me as they did the pride. The hunters were the sky and 
fire and the stone and the flood. We were only stooped 
and bloodied men. As we fled, the great spider king used 
fire against my name and destroyed it. The tiger queen 
carved a new name across my chest. She gave me her 
seed. For a third time was I born. Have I a court now? 
When I escape this cave, perhaps I shall learn.


Clanbook: Gangrel
14
Prehistory
When I passed around an early draft of this document, 
one copy of it fell into the hands of Dr. Nona Abbott, a 
Gangrel historian and critic. Dr. Abbott included 34 pages 
of corrections and footnotes as her initial response to my 
20-page history, and though some of her text was pure 
unprovable intellectual wankery or resentful misanthropy, 
she had a few compelling points that I will now summarize.
The rise of cities like Ur and Jericho in Mesopotamia in 
roughly the fourth millennium BC marked the end of a purer, 
simpler culture for mortals and Cainites. From prehistoric 
times, wandering tribes of mortals lived according to a ma-
triarchal/matrilineal code. When the tribe spent every day 
on the move, its social leaders had to keep the tribe together 
through force of personality rather than threat of violence, 
for when a tribe is tied to no land it is trivial for a dissatisfied 
member or family unit to flee the rest of the group. Such a 
social structure did not lend itself well to domination by males, 
for the typical male tactics of possession and bullying would 
not be rewarded. After the fall of [Enoch], the Cainite/Lilian 
vampire entered this pristine mortal society. Of the presumed 
13 vampire tribes, few were better suited to thrive than the 
Ennoian, tonight called the Gangrel. Indeed, a hunter/
gatherer society might well represent the basis for a Gangrel 
“Golden Age,” one in which other Kindred clans depended 
on the hardiness of the Gangrel for their very survival. With 
few established villages, Kindred needed to keep pace with 
mortal herds easily, regardless the availability of places to 
destroyed. The majority went west; it is from these that 
most of the Gangrel clan traces its lineage. Our founder, 
Ennoia, drifted in and out of torpor for millennia after 
the fall of Enoch. The Jyhad with Ravana, if there really 
was one, didn’t itself knock her into torpor for long. The 
scraps I’ve picked up suggest that Ennoia fell into a long 
torpor around the time of Christ; we continue to debate 
as to whether she’s woken up from it yet.
Other Mythology
Torvus the Viking (his name, not my appellation) 
told me an entirely different creation myth; it is his 
opinion that Caine was a favored and blessed warrior 
of Odin. I have no doubt that Gangrel such as the 
African Laibon and the Asian Anda have different 
ones as well. And they may well be right; I’m just 
passing along the stories European Gangrel share. 
The main problem with historical research among 
the Kindred, and the Gangrel in particular, is that we 
have maintained an oral tradition throughout history, 
and that over time our elders tend to degenerate into 
monstrous beasts who lack the capacity for speech. 
If you’ve heard something from a reliable, ancient 
source, by all means let me know.


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
15
hide from the sun. That need made the Gangrel powers of 
swift travel and burrowing into the earth vital for almost 
every Cainite. In the simple barter/boon economy of early 
vampires, that Discipline therefore became the equivalent 
of a modern hot technology stock: greatly in demand and 
hoarded where possible. The Gangrel relationship between 
Lilith and Ennoia myths thereby becomes even clearer. The 
Gangrel symbolize the prehistoric matriarchy that other clans 
so resent. In the torpor of Ennoia, and in Jehovah’s exile of 
Lilith, we see the Gangrel losing their favored status as the 
12 other clans encourage the growth of agriculture and cities, 
developments that in themselves destroy the matriarchy in 
favor of a warfare-controlled patriarchy.
If you can divorce her point from her radical feminist 
mania, she might well be onto something.
Mesopotamia
Sumeria represented the first real human civiliza-
tion, as far as the West is concerned. Of course, if you 
ask a Chinese anthropologist he’ll talk about mythical 
dynasties until he’s blue in the face, but such things 
have little importance to us as Cainites. Looking at the 
myriad of eccentricities about Sumeria — their language 
was unrelated to any other human language, they had 
writing, a monarchy and cities — it is very easy to leap 
to the conclusion that the Sumerians descend from the 
inhabitants of Enoch. This is the sort of question that 
keeps Kindred anthropologists up all day.
Historically, Gangrel lurked outside the cities of 
Sumeria, as we would do with other cities for the next 
six millennia. As other Cainites roamed these great cit-
ies, influencing the Sumerian culture to some degree or 
another, we withdrew, hid from the giants of the East, and 
sometimes marauded like barbarians. I get the impression 
that back in those nights, when the idea of a mortal city 
was a relatively new one, savvy Gangrel did everything 
they could to convince mortals to revert to a nomadic 
way of life. Gangrel threw hordes of enslaved animals 
at city walls; they grabbed the Beasts within hundreds 
of raiders and hurled them collectively at the greatest 
cities of the time, and so on. 
And, of course, Gangrel capitalized on mortals’ ideas. 
When the Semites invaded Sumeria, Gangrel followed 
the migration, hoping to stir an orgy of destruction. While 
there was certainly plenty of that, the Semites eventu-
ally settled into the Sumerians’ territories, realizing the 
power of prosperous cities. This pattern repeated over 
and over throughout human history; within only a few 
centuries, our clan’s elders realized that they weren’t 
going to get humanity out of cities, or cause them to 
stop cultivating their fields. 
By the Old Babylonian era, the elders of Clan Gan-
grel gave up on such plans (yes, that is a long time to 
change one’s mind — and here you thought that English 
Ventrue who still speak of the Empire were stubborn). 
They resigned themselves to eternal outsider status, for 
they truly found nomadic hunter cultures to be more 
vital than those nesting in such close quarters within 
the great cities of the time.
By the peak of Babylon, the Gangrel had scattered 
to the winds.
Greek Civilizations
The Cimmerians destroyed the Mycenaean civiliza-
tion around 1200 BC. We know hardly anything about 
the Cimmerians. They were tribal barbarians who lived 
north of Greece, and they fought a few wars against 
Scythia. The Cimmerians are said to have split into two 
groups; the Scythians drove one group northward out of 
their homeland, though if they popped up somewhere 
else, the historical record does not show it. The other 
group of Cimmerians fought to the death against the 
Scythians rather than give up their homes, and they 
did die, to a man. Now that’s conviction.
The Greeks and Scythians fought multiple wars (in 
later years, Scythia was to become one of the few nations 
not conquered by Alexander of Macedon). Scythians 
were horse-riders, slave-takers, and fierce warriors; 
Herodotus described their ability to quell a slave revolt 
by standing firm and holding horsewhips. They fought 
the Greek Darius to a standstill. They describe themselves 
as descendants of Zeus or his equivalent.
Despite the general tendency that our clan has to 
follow barbarian movements — to “ride the wave,” so to 
speak — the prevailing theory that I have heard is that 
the war between Cimmeria and Scythia was exacerbated 
by a conflict among three Cainite broodmates, all childer 
of the same Gangrel sire. I have names for only one of 
them (Egothha), so I will embellish by assigning them 
the Greek names for the three mythical founders of 
Scythia. The elder two were Agathyrsus and Gelonus; 
the youngest was called Scythes. The brood’s sire found 
fault with Agathyrsus and Gelonus and exiled them to the 
west; the two of them fell upon Cimmeria and built up 
influence there. Scythes, by contrast, truly was probably 
more capable than his brothers, and aided the mortals in 
building a powerful nation. Cimmeria and Scythia fought 
several wars, Scythia winning the majority of them due 
in part to Agathyrsus and Gelonus’ taking to the field of 
battle; Cimmerian warriors were particularly unnerved 
that two advisors to the king were such bloodthirsty 
berserks. On the other hand, Scythes stayed out of the 
fighting. Eventually Scythian soldiers forced the elder 
siblings into torpor, and conquered Cimmeria. Scythes 
himself (remember, that’s a pseudonym) vanished from 
the world stage well before the rise of Rome.


Clanbook: Gangrel
16
Eagle and Elephant
Carthage and Rome
We didn’t have a great presence in either Carthage 
or Rome. Our abilities gave us the advantage in the 
wilderness, on the ride or the hunt. Vast empires and 
their capital cities held little attraction. Certainly some 
Gangrel spent time in Rome and Carthage, but both 
were seen as too dangerous — Rome because the Ventrue 
allowed the Malkavians to share dominance with them, 
and Carthage because the Brujah and Assamite plan for 
the city went against too many of Caine’s edicts.
The Gangrel acted as Cassandras in both Rome 
and Carthage; Gangrel elders warned the Phoenician 
Cainites of the danger of Roman armies, but the Brujah 
and Assamites were confident in the strength of the 
Carthaginian navies. Still other Gangrel made it pain-
fully clear to late Imperial Roman Kindred that tribes 
under Gangrel domain planned to attack the Eternal 
City; they, too, were ignored.
The Invicti
During the late years of Imperial Rome, a Gallic 
Gangrel Embraced two worshippers of the Syrian god 
Sol Invictus (“Unconquered Sun”). One of the pair, 
whose name is lost to history, faced an early group of 
vampire-hunters who forced her to greet her deity the 
morning after her Embrace; she was destroyed instantly, 
of course. The other, a martyred soul who later took the 
name Constanus, chose to become a “protector of the 
undead,” if such a thing can be believed. Specifically, 
Constanus took it on himself to hunt mortals who 
destroy vampires. Constanus told his childer that he 
took his mandate from the Book of Nod itself, wherein 
[YHWH] states that no mortal shall be permitted to raise 
a hand against those wearing the mark of Caine. Since 
all Kindred wear that mark, any mortal who destroys a 
Cainite forfeits his life. Constanus and his brood, the 
Invicti, took this duty. 
Over time the Invicti earned a fair share of debts 
and boons, and obviously the enmity of witch-hunters. 
They became a powerful political group among Kindred 
in general, and were the premiere faction within Clan 
Gangrel. Around 600 AD, Constanus and his most 
powerful childer were caught unawares in a great fire in 
northern Italy; at least seven vampires met Final Death. 
Investigations by the scattered Invicti produced little 
evidence of a culprit; vengeful hunters, envious Kindred 
or a random lightning strike might have started the fire. 
The political fortunes and power of the Invicti fell over 
the next few years; by 650 AD few even remembered 
the word.
The Fall of Rome
If you take a look at a map of Europe that is keyed 
to vegetation, you’ll notice something quite striking. 
France, Germany, Italy, the Low Countries, England 
and Hungary are all dominated by cropland and pasture. 
Arable country — that is, the kind of land suited to the 
establishment of feudal states, manors and later large cit-
ies. These are the areas that we claimed. We went to the 
mountains, north into the forests of Scandinavia, onto 
the steppe, or south into uncharted Africa. As a clan, 
we Gangrel aren’t good at staying put. The Beast in us 
cries out against settling down. When we move into a 
civilized place, some other vampire invariably has staked 
out terrain of his own, which leaves us without domain. 
So as we scatter to the winds, we usually stay scattered. 
The oldest Gangrel punctuate the era of Rome with 
the two greatest sackings of the Eternal City: first by the 
Gauls, in the earliest days of the Roman Republic, and 
last by the Ostrogoths, at the end of the Western Roman 
Empire. The Gauls invaded Rome in 390 BC, in retribu-
tion for Rome’s murder of one of their chieftains. The 
massed barbarians routed the Roman legions and entered 
the city; they burned, looted and killed. Eight hundred 
years later, in 476 AD, barbarians returned to the gates, 
this time in the form of Odoacer’s Ostrogoths. Like their 
spiritual ancestors the Gauls, the Ostrogoths plundered, 
raped and killed. Odoacer exiled Romulus, Emperor of 
the Western Empire, and thus fell the Roman Empire. 
It’s important that I reiterate the barbarian mindset 
here. It was the will of the gods, the thinking went, that 
certain people settled down into cities and farms and 
ranches; it was the will of the gods that others live off the 
land, wandering as herds and weather took them from place 
to place. The wanderers couldn’t help but learn to ride, 
fight and hunt better than sedentary folk, because that 
was how they stayed alive. Surely this, too, was the will 
of the gods (or of God, after most of Europe’s barbarians 
converted to Christianity). Therefore it was obviously 
the will of God that barbarians plunder civilized towns 
and make off with valuables of all sorts, especially during 
lean years in the outlands. Many Gangrel of the period 
bought into all of this, of course. We were there with the 
Gauls and the Ostrogoths, and with all their relatives in 
the intervening 800 years. That’s an enormous span of 
time: Consider that eight centuries years ago the Mongols 
invaded Europe (we were with them, too). The Gangrel 
clan didn’t have much of a presence in the Roman Re-
public, nor one inside the Empire until the Romans began 
conquering Gaul. And even then we had our hands full: 
the Gangrel found themselves struggling to maintain the 
domains they already had against Ventrue, Malkavian and 
Toreador conquerors in the West and Tzimisce, Brujah 
and Nosferatu Kindred in the East.


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
17
And so the centuries passed. Avar Khan subjugated 
the Huns and Slavs of the Balkans, and went to war 
with Justinian’s Eastern Roman Empire. It wasn’t long 
before the Avars settled in central Europe, and again 
we went wandering.
Marcus Sextus
Marcus Sextus was born in Latinized Cairo 
in the first century AD; he traveled to Rome just 
after his Embrace by a Gangrel Methuselah and 
introduced himself to the Malkavian and Ventrue 
lords of the city as simply “the Egyptian.” Sextus 
had lived as a nobleman, and greatly desired the 
approval and companionship of the city’s undead 
leaders, but the greedy patrons of the Senate 
used the Gangrel’s desires to pull him this way 
and that. During the closing years of the Empire, 
the Egyptian was nothing more than a pawn. At 
a Gangrel thing near Dacia in 475, the Egyptian 
had his only encounter with the barbarian terror 
Arnulf, and learned of the coming invasion of 
Rome. After returning to the city and spending 
months in contemplation, he quietly chose to 
abandon his erstwhile masters and flee across the 
Mediterranean into Africa. There he Embraced 
numerous tribespeople before meeting his end at 
the hands of his final childe, Inyanga, who now 
roams the northern United States.
Sword and Shield
 Europe After Rome
The broad sweep of European history between the fall 
of Rome and the Mongol invasions is much too complex 
to enter into in any detail here. European civilization 
retreated eastward, to Constantinople, while so-called 
barbarian kingdoms (the Visigoths, Ostrogoths, Saxons, 
Franks and so on) infested the rest of the continent. 
Succeeding centuries show a recurring theme: A wave of 
barbarians sweeps into Europe from the Russian steppe; 
the barbarians fight against the current residents of the 
area; the barbarians settle down and are assimilated into 
local society, and their descendants take up arms against 
the next wave of barbarians to sweep in.
Throughout these centuries, the Gangrel characteristi-
cally refused to stay put. Although our ancestors walked 
among the Angles, Saxons, Goths and practically any 
other groups in which they could find sustenance, when 
these peoples settled down into formal nations the Gangrel 
found it preferable to abandon them. After all, no sooner 
would the barbarians settle than a complement of Kindred 
would nest among them and revive their old treacheries and 
schemes. When Odoacer’s Ostrogoths founded a kingdom 
on the corpse of Roman greatness, many Gangrel joined 
the Huns in the Balkans. When Clovis settled what is now 
France into a stable nation, Frankish Gangrel predators 
moved northward to join the Jutes, Lapps and Finns. 
Charlemagne
Charles, the eldest son of Pepin the Frank, became 
the first sole King of the Franks in 771. Over the course of 
his reign he consolidated a huge area, greater than modern 
France. Charlemagne, as Charles became known, was the 
first Roman Emperor of his day, crowned as he was by the 
Pope in 800 AD. By the time of Charlemagne’s reign, 
the Gangrel roamed the forests of Germany, the Balkan 
and Caucasus Mountains, the steppe further east, and 
the frozen wastes of Scandinavia. The ancients of Clan 
Gangrel had relatively little to do with Charlemagne and 
his Frankish Empire save fight them, as they did when 
the great Emperor led his men onto the field against 
the Bulgars and Arabs. After Charlemagne’s death, our 
ancestors rode with Viking and Varangian conquerors 
as they tore their way southward through Europe.
Gargoyles
The Tremere are a little cagey about their origins, 
but the impression I get from talking to the few really old 
Laibon
In scouring libraries to research this work, I 
came across an epic Saxon poem alleged to have 
been written by the Gangrel Maraulf of Three Tales. 
The poem itself is a contemporary of the Venerable 
Bede, by my best estimate; I gave it to a particular 
Old English scholar for translation in ’97. (At that 
point I was still part of the Camarilla, and when the 
prince found out what I’d done he had the scholar 
killed, but that’s neither here nor there.) It seems 
appropriate to include a particular translated bit here:
In Clusium I meet Otoaer the Black, he of the 
Laibon family/From the far south he comes, earth-spirit 
and vampire/Strong before fire and skilled on the hunt, 
the Beast troubles his kind not
Beyond this I don’t know much more about the 
Laibon. Torvus didn’t answer any questions about 
them, and he’s the oldest vampire I’ve spoken to. It is 
possible that the Laibon are descended from Gangrel 
blood; that description of Otoaer’s powers matches 
our own to some degree. It’s also possible that I have 
it backward — that the Gangrel descend from some 
sub-Saharan clan of Laibon. I assume that they’re from 
Africa; I don’t even really know if they’re descended 
from Caine. I continue to search for information about 
these creatures, but most Kindred I talk to tell me 
that Africa’s as dangerous as eastern Asia.


Clanbook: Gangrel
18
Gangrel I’ve had the privilege to meet is that they some-
how made themselves vampires. As mortal wizards, they 
decimated another clan — whether Tzimisce or a much 
smaller one, the Saulots, seems to be up in the air — and 
used the blood they harvested to turn themselves into 
vampires. Okay, you may think, no big deal. Me, I tend to 
think: Cripes, they must have been really powerful wizards. 
Here’s the part that sticks in the craw of our elders. 
The Tremere decided they needed muscle. The Tzimisce 
had cannon-fodder childer, war ghouls and horrendously 
misshapen servants at their beck and call, and the Tremere 
had almost nothing. So they captured unfortunate Kindred 
and experimented on them. I don’t know what other clans 
they captured, or what they did to them, except that they 
captured and tormented dozens of Gangrel, and the end 
result was the Gargoyle bloodline. They made Gangrel into 
those mindless slaves. That didn’t sit well at all with the 
Gangrel who found out about it. Before long whole prides 
of us showed up at the drawbridges of ancient Tzimisce 
castles as de facto allies, offering our services as warriors 
in return for a chance to take revenge and rescue our lost 
broodmates and childer. The Tzimisce seemed happy for 
the help; some genuinely needed assistance against the 
Tremere, while others liked the idea of other Cainites 
doing their dirty work. The fighting went on for more 
than a hundred years; we rescued any Gargoyles we could, 
and killed them or set them free. The alliance with the 
Tzimisce ebbed with time, and in the mid-13th century 
just about everything came to a pause in Eastern Europe.
The Mongol Invasions
I have no way to describe the chaos and madness 
that fled westward as the Golden Horde crossed the Volga 
River into Russia, and then the Balkans into Poland and 
Hungary. Genghis Khan said God Himself had chosen 
him to destroy the civilizations of Asia and Russia. When 
Genghis died, his children and grandchildren picked up 
the banner. It was Batu Khan, Genghis’ grandson, who led 
the Mongols into Europe proper. Like an avalanche, they 
came down the mountains into civilized lands with armies 
larger than any fielded in Europe. And could they fight! 
It makes one’s long-dead heart go pitter-pat to think of it. 
Slowly, clumsily, heavily armored European knights 
led sullen peasants out onto the field, expecting a con-
ventional, slow, predictable battle like every other one 
they’d fought for their lords. The Mongols were lightly 
armored when they wore armor at all; they rode hardy, fast 
steppe ponies, and they could fire arrows from horseback 
backward at a full gallop! The astute (or even not-so-
astute) reader may note a tinge of envy at this point. 
The Mongol army had never met a match in the known 
world. But for a twist of fate — the death of Ogadei 
Khan in 1241 — the Horde would have overrun Europe 
to the Atlantic. Nothing like the Mongol Horde exists 
tonight, no unstoppable barbaric force bringing terror 
to all who hear of it. I believe the closest equivalent in 
the Final Nights is a stock market crash. 
Although the Mongols and their Great Khans 
were mortal, the Horde did not ride untouched by the 
supernatural. As the Mongols crossed the Volga, many 
Gangrel joined the Horde. As was the case with the 
Huns a millennium earlier, many vampires rode with the 
Mongols simply to capitalize on the chaos and ruin they 
sowed. Others were wistful for nights of pillaging gone 
by and joined the Mongols to recapture their youths. 
No doubt for each Gangrel in the Horde one could 
name a different motivation, but I note two important 
exceptions: Arnulf and the Anda.
Stories of Arnulf dominate our oral history. He — 
it? — is rumored to hail from Scythian times, or even 
earlier; they say he even fought Alexander the Great. 
Arnulf rode with the Huns to destroy Rome; Arnulf 
helped the Turks sack Constantinople; and Arnulf was 
with the Mongols when they destroyed Hungary and 
Poland. We don’t know why he acted as he did; a fol-
lower of his own wiles, he had few words for chroniclers. 
Arnulf was more a force of nature than a vampire. He 
exemplified the barbarian’s impulse to steal the fruits 
of civilization and move on. And they say that he took 
revenge on promising barbarian leaders who embraced 
the mantle of civilization after sacking a city. He wanted 
to demolish civilization and return to primitive, simple 
nights; for a barbarian to surrender his strength and 
fatten himself with the riches of cities was the ultimate 
crime. Fittingly, Arnulf was destroyed when he finally 
took sides between two warring states; in the early 16th 
century he fought alongside the Turks of the Ottoman 
Empire and paid the ultimate price for “choosing teams.”
The Anda have a more complicated story. We West-
erners are not entirely sure where they came from. They 
were Kindred, apparently descended from the Gangrel, 
of pure Mongol blood. This contradicts what we thought 
we knew about the Far East — the Giants, who we now 
call Cathayans, were assumed to have killed any Cainites 
who wandered too far east. The truth of the situation 
appears to have been more complex. The Anda were 
destroyed to the last, victims of a great curse laid down by 
the Cathayans in the last nights of the Mongol Empire. 
I suppose it is possible that some might persist, deep in 
torpor, but if they do, surely such thousand-year old 
creatures have no interest in ephemeral modern monsters 
such as ourselves. Childer of the Anda Embraced in the 
West are supposedly indistinguishable from “ordinary” 
Gangrel, and indeed many such vampires stayed in Europe 
after the Horde returned to Karakorum. The fires of the 
Inquisition destroyed many of those, and the rest claim 
to have no exceptional knowledge of their bloodline’s 
more efficacious secrets.


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
19
Vampires are nothing if not fractious. While some 
European Cainites welcomed the ravages of the Mongol 
Horde, the majority of others fought fiercely to defend 
their territory. Doubtless the Europeans would have had 
more success had they joined forces with one another 
rather than attempting to undermine the others’ posi-
tions. In truth, Eastern European vampires were more 
likely to find allies against the Mongols among the 
Lupines than in each other. Gangrel of all stripes died 
by the pack in Poland and Hungary. 
Rroma
Things this far back are always foggy, but let’s try a 
theory on for size. When the Rroma (the Gypsies) left In-
dia, some of them had Ravnos traveling with them. I don’t 
think a lot did, but some did. When companies of Rroma 
traveled from kingdom to kingdom, they had to get writs of 
passage from the local authorities. Sometimes they couldn’t 
get the writs, and sometimes the writs weren’t of much use 
— a note from the faraway king isn’t of much use against 
bandits on the road — but for the most part they kept the 
Rroma safe. It seems a little strange that the Rroma, who 
were, by all accounts, generally mistrusted and accused of 
awful crimes, could easily gain audiences with kings and 
lords and obtain notes of safe conduct. That’s where the 
Ravnos traveling with them came in. The vampires had a 
much easier time gaining access, and in earning the writs. 
But of course, in Europe they didn’t have such an easy time 
of things. Any given Ravnos was no more likely than his 
caravan herd to speak the language, and, as I mentioned, 
most companies didn’t travel with vampires at all. When 
Rroma happened upon European Gangrel, some offered 
their own blood to the “shilmulo” in return for the favor of 
acquiring letters of safe passage. This scheme worked out 
well for both sides, and a few Gangrel acquired Rroma herds 
of their own. Eventually word of one particular Gangrel 
horning in on Ravnos “possessions” made its way back to 
a few Ravnos, and half a dozen Deceivers ambushed the 
Lithuanian Gangrel Intarn as he rested with his adopted 
family. Intarn died slowly, and when word of that got back 
to his childer, the fight was on. 
Spend enough time dead around elder Gangrel and 
you’re sure to hear stories about the Gangrel Antediluvian 
and the Ravnos Antediluvian being old lovers, or old 
enemies, or tennis doubles or something like that, but 
I don’t put any stock in it. I’m not sure you can; surely, 
beings like that would be incomprehensibly alien and 
selfish in their vast power. Theories about 10,000-year-
old sibling rivalry seem insanely simplistic. I find it 
more likely that feuding vampires from the period I just 
described latched on to old stories about their progenitors 
and fit them to the cause at hand. But then I’m a cynic.


Clanbook: Gangrel
20
Stake and Pyre
The Inquisition was a horrifically dark time for us, as 
anyone with half a brain might suspect. Kindred elders 
had swaggered around as undying lords of the night since 
the fall of Rome. Even the normally not-bothered-with-
that-sort-of-bullshit Gangrel got too big for their britches, 
terrorizing entire towns and marauding off with cattle, 
children, virgins, etc. In the 14th century the kine finally 
started to wake up and realize that vampires weren’t 
indestructible or omniscient. The Church waged war on 
heretics, Satanists, witches, Lupines, Cainites, anything 
it could get its hands on. The Inquisition hit the Gangrel 
no more or less than any other clan. You might think we’d 
end up on the pyre less often than other clans, since we 
don’t burrow into cities or lords’ manors like the Ventrue 
or Nosferatu do. But Gangrel have a hard time conceal-
ing their bestial natures; when Father Jean confronts a 
woman with clawed paws or spider eyes, he barely takes 
the time to shout “Demon!” before she’s on the fire. The 
Ventrue don’t stick out like we do, and the Nosferatu, 
who do stick out like we do, know how to hide their real 
faces. The Inquisition undoubtedly destroyed at least one 
bloodline of distant relatives of ours, a group known as 
the Lhiannan. This collection of Celts, Gauls and Slavs 
found itself unable to withstand the faith of the Holy 
Inquisitors; stories have come down to us that the Lhian-
nan were blood-witches, infernalists or worse…. I don’t 
know what to believe. I just know that they’re gone now.
Leif:
I fear that you were right. These Cainites of the 
south lack honor, and they hate us for the truth we 
speak. Two weeks ago, trapped in unfamiliar lands 
near dawn, I petitioned the Ventrue Lord Piter Arpad 
for shelter, and he nobly granted it. When I awoke the 
following evening, Lord Arpad and I sat for an hour, dis-
cussing mortal and Cainite politics. I daresay I did not 
follow most of what he had to say, but I endeavored 
to keep up. When talk turned to the rebellion spurred by 
the blind General Hus, it seemed to me that Arpad spoke 
of supporting both sides in the rebellion. I told Arpad as 
much. He flushed with anger, as though I had accused 
him of a grave sin; he called me a liar and asked me to 
leave his manor. I was no liar, Leif, and I told him so 
and drew my sword. It took this Lord Arpad and six of 
his men-at-arms to drive me from his hall, and I slew 
two of them in the doing. For a few nights after this I 
watched Lord Arpad’s manor as a raven in a nearby 
tree. Within a few nights a messenger ran from Lord 
Arpad’s manor to the local church. Now I hear that 
the Inquisition is in search of a demon with my very 
features, in this area. And they know my name, Leif.  
They know my name.
Storytellers’ Secret: The Anda
The Cathayans forced the Gangrel out of Asia in 
prehistoric times. But some Gangrel stayed, hidden or in 
torpor; some made their havens in the forests of Siberia, 
and others hid among nomadic tribes — the Huns, the 
Tanguts and the Mongols. Most of the Gangrel who 
walked among the Asian nomads descended from a 
nameless Methuselah reputed to have burrowed under 
the Gobi Desert. This bloodline — whose members 
called themselves Anda, the Mongolian word for “blood 
brother” — spent their nights capitalizing on the Mongols’ 
conquests. As the Mongol Empire expanded, they came 
back into contact with Kindred society as a whole. Some 
assimilated, others didn’t, and still other Western Cainites 
joined the Mongols. The Anda and their converts didn’t 
last; around the time that the Mongol dynasty collapsed 
in China, the Cathayans rose up and slaughtered any 
Mongol Kindred they could get their talons on. Some 
may have escaped — more than one elder Gangrel 
claims to remember Genghis Khan — but as an entity, 
the Anda bloodline is no more.
The Anarch Revolt and 
the Convention of Thorns
Speaker is Torvus Bloodbeard, a Viking; my luck in 
getting him to speak on tape continues to frighten me.
I’ll tell you about the Convention of Thorns. I was 
there; I would know what happened. The details aren’t 
all clear anymore — I remember a monastery, I remember 
caves, I remember a year’s worth of blood — but that’s 
not what matters. What matters is that the thing was a 
joke from the start. I had been in Prague, and when the 
prince of Prague was invited to the Convention he asked 
me to go in his stead. I suppose he respected my sense of 
honor; I wasn’t about to lie or misrepresent him. It was in 
England. Thankfully most of the conversation was done 
in a civilized language, or at least Latin. On one side you 
had the Founders: Hardestadt and his cronies. On the 
other side you had the leaders of the Anarch Revolt, a 
howling pack of honorless savages and villains. I hadn’t 
chosen a side, really; I had spent most of the Anarch 
Revolt in torpor, and I found both sides distasteful. In 
that last, it turned out that I wasn’t alone among my clan. 
Most of us preferred neither side in the conflict and had 
chosen the Camarilla as the path of least resistance. Many 
Cainites of note had been invited, you understand, but 
most did not come. Most of us had the impression that 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
21
a real discussion of the Anarch Revolt would take place, 
and that perhaps some kind of peace would be brokered. 
We were quite mistaken. The Founders had a plan com-
ing in; they knew what kind of peace they wanted, and 
they were unwilling to accept anything else. The anarchs 
had plans, as well, and neither group seemed likely to 
compromise. The Founders offended the anarchs with a 
prewritten agenda and a treaty that changed not at all 
in response to the furious debates that swept across the 
courtyard in which we met. Both parties — Founder and 
anarch — instead spent their time wooing influential 
vampires like myself, who had yet to choose a side. It was 
rather flattering. But for me the choice was easy: I spent 
the early years after my death as a vargr in the far north, 
and for us diablerie was the worst crime. The anarchs 
considered diablerie a convenient tool. And when Karsh 
approached me, speaking of honor, loyalty and integrity, 
I knew I had no choice but to side with the Founders. I 
was not the only one Karsh or Petrenkov, the Gangrel 
among the Founders, spoke to, and for every Gangrel elder 
who went his way, four or five neonates swung the same 
direction. Certainly many young Gangrel sided with the 
anarchs and would not leave that side after the offense of 
the choreographed convention, but Gangrel elders had 
avoided alienating their childer with the worst offenses 
shown by the Lasombra, Tzimisce and Ventrue.
Gun and Ship
At least a dozen Gangrel elders knew that another 
continent lay to the west of the Atlantic as early as 1200 
AD. To a Kindred, these Gangrel descended from Vikings, 
and heard tales of Vinland from returning travelers. One 
— who we shall call Olaf, though his true name is lost 
to history — entertained optimistic thoughts of a wild 
land empty of European or Asian vampires. Some four 
centuries old even in 1200, Olaf captained a boatload of 
men through the gales of the North Atlantic in darkest 
winter, seeking this promised land. Eventually he did 
find it. The Vinlanders were beset by natives they called 
skraelings; the descriptions are spotty and embellished, 
but they are pretty obviously Native Americans. Over 
time the Vinlanders came to know the skraelings, and yes, 
I mean that in most senses of the word; it appears now 
that the Narragansett tribe is partially descended from 
Vinlanders. Some Vinlanders traveled south with their new 
families, while others either died or returned to Europe. 
In the end, Olaf and Karl, his childe, traveled south into 
the open lands of America. Olaf, somewhat paranoid, 
taught Karl the Nosferatu gift of obfuscation, and Karl 
found it quite useful, adding the art of the ambush to his 
tactics of predation. The travel was difficult, of course: 
Europe’s population clustered together in towns and cities, 
but the seemingly primitive natives of America did no 
such thing. When it was convenient for them to do so, 
Olaf and Karl posed as traveling spirits; at other times, 
they traveled quietly, in human or wolf form, hunting as 
necessary. Karl speaks of this time as a peaceful night-
time idyll, with no Cainites to trouble the pair. Trouble 
did come, of course; along the Atlantic seaboard a fierce 
tribe of werewolves and their native slaves hunted the 
duo for years, eventually driving Olaf into torpor. Karl 
escaped with his unlife and dwelt in peace for more than 
two centuries; he occasionally granted the Embrace to a 
native, but for the most part he spent his time as a quiet, 
hidden hunter of men. Karl’s stories suggest that he was 
aware of slumbering Methuselahs in the Americas well 
before Columbus arrived, but he kept his distance and 
recommended that his childer do the same. To that end, 
Karl made sure to teach his childer the Nosferatu talent 
Olaf had given him, sometimes giving that Discipline 
preference over our clan’s usual sway over animals.
The 16th Century
As humankind explored the West Indies and Ameri-
cas, we scattered across the globe. Gangrel had established 
havens amid the wilds of the Songhai Empire in Africa, 
regardless of the danger posed by the supernatural creatures 
of the Dark Continent. Gangrel fought on both sides of 
Ivan the Terrible’s reclamation of Russia from the Golden 
Horde. We fed from the Aztecs and their descendants. 
We rode with the Turks of Suleiman the Magnificent, 
conquering European towns and cities from the Black 
Sea across much of the southern Mediterranean. 
It is certainly the case that many Gangrel — includ-
ing the infamous Arnulf the Hun — rode with the Turks 
as they invaded Europe in the 15th and 16th centuries. 
Many Cainite historians look at that allegiance as an 
aberration. To them, Gangrel are creatures of barbarism, 
not Islam — and despite the prevailing opinions of 
European Kindred at the time, Suleiman’s Turks were 
not barbaric at all, but rather had a culture as deep and 
advanced as any in Europe. Gangrel who rode with the 
Ottoman Turks saw them not as destroyers of cities but 
rather a means to an end. Elders who had made their 
havens in Europe for centuries built up an impressive 
list of enemies, and an allegiance of convenience with 
the Turks and their Assamite companions allowed the 
Gangrel to sack Tremere or Tzimisce holdings in ways 
unavailable to them while they skulked in Europe.
The Sabbat
I’m a lot spottier on the history of the Sabbat. It’s 
not for lack of trying, but if you can imagine the prob-
lems inherent in interviewing Gangrel of any stripe, 
and multiply those by the risk to life and limb one takes 
when spending time with any Sabbat vampire, you 
should understand how I have less information on them 


Clanbook: Gangrel
22
than you might want to see. If you have any more of a 
clue — a serious clue, please, I don’t need more e-mail 
from dedthrashd00d talking about how totally /kewl\ it 
is that the Sabbat are like totally evul — feel free to drop 
me a line. Use some reasonable encryption, too, or I’ll 
just drop the message. The Camarilla may be a bunch of 
bastards, but the Masquerade makes too much sense for 
me to blow it off this soon.
A few things are clear, though, and I’ll try to address 
them. A few dozen anarchs were furious at the result of 
the Convention of Thorns. Despite the damage they’d 
done to elders across Europe — and, if you believe the 
Lasombra and Tzimisce, the destruction of two Antedilu-
vians — most young anarchs just rolled over for their sires 
and grandsires when the time came to make a decision. As 
Torvus Bloodbeard mentioned earlier, the Gangrel didn’t 
have all that many anarchs in the first place, since the 
clan’s elders didn’t abuse their childer nearly as much as 
other clans’ elders did. (Well, maybe they did. But if so, 
who cares? It’s not like the Gangrel anarchs had a much 
more organized social order than the parent clan.) But 
those who did join the anarch cause like the Mongol 
Jalan-Aajav believed in it fairly devoutly. (And don’t ask 
me if Jalan-Aajav was one of the Anda. I don’t know, and 
he does not answer my questions on the subject.)
By the middle of the 16th century or so, these anarchs 
were tired of running and hiding from the elders they’d 
assaulted after the Convention of Thorns, and they held 
clandestine meetings in Spain and southeastern Europe. 
These meetings generated a philosophy, a name and a 
new sense of direction for the harried anarchs. They called 
themselves covens and sabbats, and espoused a belief that 
they were the true scions of the Devil (or Caine, depending 
upon geography); they scorned the Masquerade and the 
elders who defended it. In my opinion, only two kinds of 
Gangrel joined the early Sabbat: those who were spoiling 
for a fight, and those who refused to “play human” with the 
Camarilla. The brawlers got all they could handle; most of 
them met Final Death fighting the Camarilla. But those 
who succeeded felt no qualms about diablerizing their 
opponents, increasing their own strength and improving 
their odds in the next skirmish. The fighting mostly took 
place in Spain and France, though some battles raged in 
the traditional Tzimisce homelands of the Balkans. It was 
guerrilla warfare, the kind of fight at which we Gangrel excel.
From conversations with Bloodbeard, Mortensen 
and one or two other elder Gangrel, I learned that 
many of our ancestors abandoned human morals and 
ethics as soon as it was convenient. Most of these 
were quickly consumed by their Beasts, but the more 
disciplined among them followed the Path of the Feral 
Heart, a code of ethics that encourages its followers 
to tame the Beast gnawing at them from within. The 
Camarilla, however, strongly encouraged — some 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
23
might say strongarmed — its membership to accept 
the ethic of “Humanity,” to allow Kindred to blend 
into human society better. It’s no easy task to abandon 
a code of ethics you feel strongly about. If you don’t 
believe me, try it sometime. In effect, the Founders were 
telling the Gangrel elders who developed the Path of 
the Feral Heart that their chosen morality was wrong, 
and that they were criminals if they couldn’t abandon 
it to return to the side of humanity. So yeah, some of 
them told the Founders to go to Hell, and joined up 
with the anarchs. 
The 17th Century
The Thirty Years’ War between Catholics and Prot-
estants in the Holy Roman Empire served to cover up a 
great deal of Camarilla-Sabbat maneuvering. Though I 
have no doubt that mortals caused and fought the war, 
I have to wonder if it would have gone on as long as 
it did were it not for the machinations of the undead. 
Gangrel are the fiercest Cainite warriors, as is pretty well 
acknowledged, and we saw plenty of action during the 
war. Not all Gangrel Kindred were die-hard believers 
in the causes they fought for; even back then, plenty of 
Autarkis Gangrel chose sides based on who could pay 
them better in gold or blood.
European colonists founded the first serious Euro-
pean settlements in North America in the 17th century. 
Some did not survive, but many thrived and before long, 
settlements dotted the East Coast. European colonists 
interacted with Native Americans at a variety of levels, 
from outright war to pleasant cooperation; this interac-
tion brought the new American colonies to the attention 
of potent Gangrel who already made their havens in 
America. These Outlanders fed from the new colonists 
until European Cainites finally made their way across 
the Atlantic some decades later, at which time there 
were some… exciting… conflicts between the two groups.
The 18th Century
In none of these sections do I find myself pressed to 
say, “This was a boring time for the Gangrel and nothing 
much happened.” The 18th century was a time of explora-
tion and revolution. Revolution we don’t generally have 
much truck with, but exploration is our gig. I won’t make 
the preposterous announcement that Lewis and Clark were 
Gangrel (or even Gangrel ghouls, or manipulated by a 
secret Gangrel Kindred and his legion of loyal followers, 
or any other ludicrous, Ventrue-esque proclamation), 
but many expeditions into the wilds of North America 
relied on grizzled trappers and traders with shady pasts and 
unusual habits. Surely you wouldn’t find it too strange to 
learn that at least one of them was one of us.
Revolutions raged in France and America. Both 
of them allowed for some hidden Sabbat-Camarilla 
violence, just like every war does, but other than that 
tidbit, the Gangrel I spoke to about the revolutions didn’t 
have much of an opinion. Most of them liked the US as 
it was, but at the time the revolution didn’t matter to 
them. The only effect it had on vampiric society, accord-
ing to my sire and his acquaintances, was that dozens of 
mortal institutions extricated themselves from European 
dominance, and that gave American Kindred a shot 
at getting some influence of their own. Of course, this 
didn’t do much for the Gangrel, who lacked the neces-
sary connections to exploit such a power vacuum, but 
again, most Gangrel didn’t get too worked up about it. 
The 19th Century
In the United States, the Civil War (or, as my 
brethren in Georgia prefer, the War Between the States) 
dominated the 19th century; from this perspective it’s 
easy to look at events leading up to the war and see 
them as precursors to it, and it’s certainly the case that 
much of the end of the century was spent dealing with 
the ramifications of the war.
As for the Gangrel, well, the unpleasant truth is that 
slave pens make good feeding grounds. The freeing of Ameri-
can slaves during and after the Civil War was something of 
a hardship to Gangrel who’d fed at the same plantation for 
a century or more. Personally I couldn’t care less if those 
Gangrel went through some tough times; I find the practice 
of slavery repugnant, and the act of feeding on slaves or 
prisoners downright repulsive. But let’s face facts: We often 
refer to mortals as kine. Cattle. Respect for human dignity 
and freedom isn’t universal among Kindred, and such things 
fade quickly after a century of unlife, to my observations. 
And let’s not even get into the Sabbat’s attitudes.
As for the war itself, it was a bloody, horrific mess. 
It was the last “traditional” war fought by Americans; in 
contrast to the “total war” mentality seen during the Great 
War, the Civil War was downright genteel. But thousands 
died; Grant knew that the Union’s only advantage was its 
vast population, and he hurled throngs of troops at Con-
federate positions. Like any nomadic scavengers would, 
Gangrel profited from these scenes of mass destruction. 
Once the sun went down, we crawled from the ground to 
feast on the recently dead and not-quite dead. Plenty of 
neonates came out of the war, and most of them retained 
prejudices from their mortal lives. For a short time in the 
1870s, feuding Gangrel neonates in Virginia and West 
Virginia made the Applachians all but impassable from 
north to south, but this skirmish resolved itself with only 
a few Final Deaths. A few fringe ancillae from this period 
still hold grudges, and viciously challenge any young 
Gangrel in their territory whose accent shows him to be 
from the wrong side of the Mason-Dixon line.
For all practical purposes, the Native American na-
tions in the United States died during the 1800s. American 


Clanbook: Gangrel
24
Indians were pushed westward, then forcibly herded onto 
reservations to allow whites the choicest territory. Those 
tribes that refused to capitulate to the demands of the US 
found the Army hounding them across the Great Plains. 
Many Gangrel counted themselves as allies of the native 
tribes; many others simply fed on them, with less concern 
given to the natives’ political fortunes. Some Gangrel had 
the audacity to act against the relocation forces arrayed 
against native tribes; they might divert the forces for 
long enough to allow favored mortals to escape, but just 
as often they roused an otherwise nonplussed army group 
into taking drastic action against the Indians.
Relocation onto reservations wasn’t itself that much 
of a problem for the undead. Gangrel are nothing if not 
mobile. But with relocation and reservations came a 
decline in the tribes’ spirits. Their numbers decreased, 
and they found themselves to be nothing more than a 
token nod to long-broken treaties. Plenty of Gangrel 
took up residence in or near native reservations, which 
were not too radically different from the concentration 
camps of later wars; the natives were decent herds, and a 
few were willing to work as servants or even ghouls. For 
the most part, the other clans left the reservations alone, 
seeing them as too much work for relatively small gains.
City Gangrel and Country Gangrel
The Sabbat has always been strong in North Ameri-
ca, as we well know. Too many Gangrel broods converged 
on the continent simultaneously for me to have a hope 
of providing a general genealogy of those present at any 
point in history, but I can give you a couple of interesting 
facts. The first is that by the American Revolution, the 
broods of Karl childe of Olaf dominated the northern 
Appalachians. You may remember my earlier mention 
of Karl; he and Olaf come from the age of the Vinland 
settlement in what is now Nova Scotia.
Members of Karl’s broods and European Sabbat 
Gangrel hit New York City in large numbers around the 
time of the American Civil War. By 1860, my sources 
indicate, as many as three dozen Sabbat Gangrel made 
their havens in the city (think about that for a minute). 
Curiously, many Sabbat Gangrel had left the New York-
Philadelphia area in the preceding decade, ostensibly to 
brawl with the Camarilla in the Wild West.
Several Gangrel packs that prowled the New World 
during the Civil War had a surprising amount in common. 
Unlike their clanmates, these Kindred had no great affin-
ity for the wilderness. Some were born in large cities in 
America or Europe; others had developed a (reasonable) 
fear of the forest and dark plain during their unlives. Many 
(though certainly not all) of these vampires had shown 
a tendency to develop insectoid or arachnid features — 
like the possibly legendary Tonio Eight-eyes — or the 
characteristics of decidedly urban beasts. Lastly, almost 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
25
all of them unconsciously preferred a different set of 
Disciplines than our clan usually favors. They eschewed 
rugged hardiness for supernatural speed, and chose the 
arts of concealment rather than the ways of beast mastery.
The packs declared kinship in spirit, if not in lineage, in 
a bloodcurdling ceremony in the tenements of Manhattan 
around 1870. The leadership of the Sabbat in New York 
acknowledged the “City Gangrel” as a separate bloodline 
from the “Country Gangrel” about a decade later, and by 
the turn of the century they spread through Sabbat holdings 
across North and South America. To this day, I’m told, 
City Gangrel are far less common in Europe, and almost 
all of them are childer or grandchilder of Americans. 
Those that aren’t, I can make a guess as to their previous 
ancestry, but I’m not going to set it down here. 
Engine and Wire
The Industrial Revolution
The Industrial Revolution, which began in the late 
19th century, had a curious impact on Cainites in general 
and the Gangrel clan in specific. Dozens of cities in the 
Great Lakes region — such as Pittsburgh, Gary, Cleveland 
or Detroit — were sleepy little burgs in the wake of the Civil 
War. They had relatively small populations, typically no 
more than the 100,000 necessary to support one Kindred 
under the guidelines of the Camarilla. In several cases, 
that lone Cainite was a Gangrel who’d claimed the area 
as her domain for over a century. By 1880, though, these 
cities’ populations began to spike upward with an influx of 
immigrants and factory workers — Pittsburgh, for example, 
doubled its population from 1880 to 1900. A town that 
could feasibly support one Kindred in 1850 could support 
10 just 50 years later. And when a city could support more 
Kindred, you better believe those Kindred came.
Gangrel caught in the population boom tried several 
different responses. Some declared themselves prince and 
each Embraced a childe or two to back their claim up with 
a brood. Some settled for behind-the-scenes roles, endors-
ing newcomers in exchange for major boons and perhaps 
serving as primogen. Some long-time Gangrel residents 
lost out to faster rivals; the new princes generally destroyed 
or de-fanged their Gangrel competitors. Many Gangrel 
caught in the industrial revolution simply left in search 
of wilder frontiers, away from the Kindred-come-lately.
The Wright Brothers’ invention of the airplane fur-
ther devalued the singular Gangrel ability to fly; trains 
already far outstripped flapping bats in terms of speed, but 
Gangrel were matched only by the rare Gargoyles and 
untrustworthy Tremere in their ability to provide aerial 
reconnaissance. With the airplane’s invention, flight as a 
bat became more of a novelty than a serious form of long-
distance travel or communication. At least, that’s the way 
I see it; it can be useful to turn into a bat in the city, or to 
elude pursuers, but I’d never consider traveling that way.
Massive industrialization concentrated wealth in the 
hands of a few individuals, and in many cases those indi-
viduals were under the sway of the Ventrue or Tremere. 
That shouldn’t surprise you; it didn’t surprise any of us. 
Keeping tabs on high-tech industries like pipe-fitting 
wasn’t something the average feral Gangrel had inter-
est or time for. There are always exceptions, mind you; 
several Gangrel had their talons in Standard Oil out at 
the wildcatting level, for instance. But as usual, when a 
new economic innovation came about, the other Kin-
dred took the gold mine and left the Gangrel the shaft.
The Closing of the Frontier
The end of the American frontier as a palpable 
thing, early in the 20th century, was a blow against the 
American Gangrel. No longer could the default answer 
to their political problems be to flee westward, into the 
wilderness; the wilderness was still there, of course, but it 
wasn’t a great unclaimed undefined free land any more. 
The wildest Gangrel ran into California and the Pacific 
Ocean. It would not be long, by vampiric standards, before 
westward-running refugees turned the West Coast into a 
Free State. Several broods of Gangrel ran to the wilder-
ness of the West at the turn of the century. The childer of 
Luchenko fed in the mountains around Denver; a trio of 
North African expatriates in the desert around Las Vegas 
later extorted fantastic wealth out of the Camarilla vam-
pires who later set up shop in town; and a pride of rustic 
Native American Gangrel led by one “Skysmoke” kept a 
low profile in South Dakota at least until the Great War.
The Panama Canal
The French were the first to really try digging a canal 
across the Isthmus of Panama, at the end of the 19th 
century. They failed for many reasons, including the rapid 
spread of malaria from natives to Frenchmen. When the 
American government started its own canal project in 
the wake of Panama’s 1903 revolution, malaria remained 
a huge problem. The presence of malaria-spreading 
Cainites in the area didn’t help matters, of course.
A small brood of Gangrel hunted in the area we now 
think of as the canal zone around the turn of the century. 
They mostly kept to themselves, due to their inhuman 
features; they had multi-faceted eyes, buzzing voices and 
more. One in particular, called Jose by his broodmates, 
had lost much of the lower half of his skull in favor of a 
mosquitolike proboscis. Jose’s broodmates insisted that 
he could consume blood faster than anyone else in the 
area, but he’d lost his ability to speak.
The insectoids spread malaria so much faster than 
would be expected that a number of American scientists 
traveled to the canal zone to investigate the presence of 
a new vector for the disease. After only a few weeks of 


Clanbook: Gangrel
26
study, they were relatively sure that they’d discovered a 
new, large blood-drinking predator; the scientists even 
made a few forays into the nighttime jungle in an attempt 
to catch the beast in the act of feeding. 
Thankfully for the Masquerade, things never got much 
farther than that; the insectoids attacked the group of 
scientists during one of those nighttime escapades. A few 
scientists were killed, and the others, terrified both at the 
violence and the nearly incomprehensible forms of their 
attackers, refused to continue their research afterward.
Exploring
By the beginning of the 20th century there wasn’t 
much uncharted frontier left for our clan’s wilder 
members to retreat into. Of course, by the same token, 
American Manifest Destiny had encircled the Lupines 
and the few remaining Native Americans, and the were-
wolves seem much more dependent on wilderness than 
even we are. We took the good with the bad.
Numerous brave souls explored the remaining un-
charted lands of the world; in some cases that proved 
rather dangerous. For instance, as I mentioned before, a 
few extremely old Gangrel moved into the far north in 
prehistoric times; some took Siberian or Inuit tribes as 
herds. At least one expedition to the far north disturbed 
one of those tribes, and a few explorers died mysteri-
ously in the night. I haven’t heard about any Antarctic 
expeditions awakening anyone or anything, which I 
imagine is fortuitous. Then again, people die on all of 
those trips, and you can’t say for sure that Kindred didn’t 
kill them; we’re only sure that it didn’t look like Kindred 
killed them. Which, I suppose, is the point after all.…
Turncoat
In 1912, Marvin Schellman, a German-
American Sabbat vampire of our clan, made a big 
move: He broke free of the mutual blood bonds 
of the Sabbat and ran like hell for Europe. When 
he reached Munich, he abased himself before that 
city’s prince and begged for shelter. The Camarilla 
of the city did not trust the apparent turncoat, of 
course, but after Munich’s Tremere declared him 
safe (how, I don’t know — presumably by looking 
for blood bonds), he gained some freedom. Schell-
man went to ground, literally, during the Second 
World War, and since that time has created two 
childer. He sent both to America, and today they 
serve their sire’s desires by hunting the Sabbat 
pack he fled. Justice delayed is only justice denied 
when the offended party is mortal.


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
27
than one nature enthusiast joined the ranks of Clan 
Gangrel early this century.
Immigration and the New City
During the years leading up to the Great War, Kindred 
and mortal immigration to the United States increased 
dramatically. Newcomers from southern and Eastern 
Europe came across the Atlantic in great numbers, and 
European vampires accompanied no few of them. Neo-
nates of all clans in Europe were trapped; positions of 
power were not going to open up above them without 
a titanic war. Fearing a new Anarch Revolt, European 
elders encouraged their childer to immigrate to the US.
This immigration took place both among the Sabbat 
Gangrel and the Camarilla Gangrel, which surprised me 
when I learned of it. I’d assumed that there weren’t that 
many vampires left among the European Sabbat by 1900; 
certainly the one European Camarilla elder I’d spoken to 
implied that the Sabbat was no longer a problem there. 
But no — in Spain and the Balkans the Black Hand still 
held sway, and when population pressure grew too great, 
the sect’s elders “relocated” troublesome Kindred to the 
Americas, just as the Camarilla did.
Both sects fell in love, figuratively speaking, with the 
new image of the city in the early part of this century. 
More specifically, Gangrel of both sects found beauty in 
the skyscraper and the subway. The skyscraper expressed 
the desire to rise above the crowd; those who could reach 
the tops of such buildings spoke of a new perspective on 
the city below, literally and figuratively. Gangrel found 
skyscrapers to be great perches; when one has the pow-
ers of flight and keen senses, a skyscraper is a fine place 
from which to watch one’s prey.
Subway tunnels remain thoroughfares of opportunity 
for the undead. Any mechanism that lets a vampire move 
around a city without risking exposure to sunlight is 
bound to be quite popular with Kindred. More Nosferatu 
than Gangrel make their lairs in forgotten offshoots of 
subway systems, but many Gangrel do take advantage 
of such things.
I was surprised at first to find city planners and con-
struction engineers among our clan, in both the Camarilla 
and the Black Hand. But it seems obvious in retrospect. 
The city is our nightly playground; Camarilla bastions must 
repel Sabbat invaders. The skyscraper and the subway are 
roosts, havens, bolt-holes and feeding grounds. Obviously, 
such specialists are relatively young; a Methuselah cannot 
be roused to learn the intricacies of excavation engineer-
ing. But such things are of great general interest to elders 
of most clans; secure underground and penthouse havens 
are necessary staples of our existence.
But the surge in manly endeavor — personified in 
Teddy Roosevelt and later, the roaring, drunken Ernest 
Hemingway — had great side effects for some members 
of our clan. As land was declared to be part of the 
National Parks system, Americans were invited into 
the wilderness for camping trips, hiking expeditions 
and so on, and if a “bear” mauled the occasional hiker, 
hey, that’s the price they paid for having such luxurious 
wilderness all around. The really big national and state 
parks provided havens to Lupines, so the parks weren’t 
buffets for Gangrel who had staked them out, but some 
Gangrel relished the danger inherent in feeding within 
Lupine territory and others had no choice.
Eugenics
At the St. Louis World’s Fair in 1904, Dr. W. McGee 
presented a number of exhibits of “primitive” human-
ity; Indian tribes, African pygmies and aborigines from 
across the world were held in what was no less than a 
zoo for humanity, to show off their barbaric ways of life. 
The end of this series of exhibits, of course, was the pre-
sentation of Anglo-Saxon Caucasian Americans as the 
pinnacle of human evolution. I hear that at least one of 
the “exhibits” found herself Embraced near the end of 
the World’s Fair, by one of our number; I imagine she’s 
still in St. Louis and I don’t imagine she feels terribly 
charitable toward whites, even today.
I hadn’t been born, much less Embraced, when this 
stuff was going on, but I do remember that before the 
Second World War the term “eugenics” was much less 
loaded than it is today. It was an admirable goal, really: 
the improvement of humanity. Hell, if you believe their 
stories, vampire elders have groomed human bloodlines 
to fit their needs throughout history.
Okay, seriously. In the modern nights, the eugenics 
movement seems somewhat specious; now scientists are 
mastering the human genome and soon will be able to 
improve human genetics directly, rather than taking 
generations to breed the perfect human. I imagine that 
vampires who have spent generations breeding “im-
proved” humans will take umbrage at this when it occurs.
In light of the emphasis on the difference between 
“civilized man” and “primitive man,” it may seem strange 
that many Americans chose to undertake a more primi-
tive lifestyle. These people generally put great stock in 
the myth of the noble savage, and wanted to become 
barbaric again. I must wryly note that this was a great 
opportunity for my clan. Back-to-the-woods types pro-
vided plenty of blood, and those who worked in cities 
but spent weekends or summers in the countryside made 
excellent contacts for politically distant Gangrel. More 


Clanbook: Gangrel
28
Those Other Countries
Gangrel have never worried too much about na-
tional boundaries; no border patrol officer will prevent 
a crow from flying over his assigned booth or a coyote 
from running past, especially while he dismantles the 
car of suspected cocaine- or bomb-smugglers. Plenty 
of Gangrel who sought pristine wilderness found it 
north of the 55th parallel in Canada. Even in the 
modern nights, the Canadian Great Plains are vast, 
empty expanses, and Canada has more parkland than 
the entire United States has. Unfortunately, wherever 
one finds huge tracts of beautiful wilderness, one 
finds Lupines. I don’t know if there are really more 
werewolves in Canada than there are in the US, or 
if it just seemed that way last time I went north. If 
you want to really get away from it all, the Canadian 
Great Plains or Rockies are the answer. Just be careful 
you don’t get more than you wanted.
Mexico is more densely populated than Canada, 
but parts of it are just as wild. The Sabbat has infested 
Mexico as long as there’s been a Mexico, of course, so 
travelers southward have always had to be careful lest 
they be invited to a blood-kegger. Modern Mexico 
City is a scary place for non-Sabbat vampires of any 
flavor, as they would put it, so if you’re a Camarilla 
or independent Kindred, I suggest you avoid it. On 
the upside, there aren’t as many Lupines in Mexico 
as in Canada, or at least there weren’t the last time 
I went to Tijuana. 
breaches of the Masquerade easier to hide. So there must 
have been some particular Camarilla holding that the Sabbat 
wanted to damage beyond repair. On the other hand, Serbia 
itself is in ancient Tzimisce territory. Maybe they needed to 
do something there. I’m sure that Tom will entirely ignore 
the significance of this tidbit, but that’s why I’m here.
Gangrel in Europe made a good opportunity out of 
a shitty situation. Let’s face it: Entrenched armies and 
battlefield machine guns aren’t conducive to leading a 
simple undeath. However, the Gangrel had a few things 
going for them that other clans didn’t. Terence Arthur 
of England was arguably the first to realize that we could 
scout battlefields very easily, perhaps more easily than the 
Nosferatu. Arthur made a killing selling aerial maps to 
those elders with a vested interest in the war’s outcome. 
Similarly, Gangrel made great messengers between those 
Kindred whose lines of communication had been cut by 
trenches. And in a bit more macabre fashion, I happen 
to know that battlefields make for good eating. Corpses 
are still good for our purposes several hours after they’ve 
dropped, and bodies sometimes laid in No Man’s Land 
for nights at a stretch.
Karsh, the Gangrel Warlord of the Camarilla, did 
take advantage of the chaos of the war to direct sorties 
against the remaining Sabbat strongholds in Europe. 
On a number of occasions, mortal soldiers charged 
Sabbat strongholds, or were ordered by their superiors 
to defend locations that turned out to be the property 
of elder Kindred. Not that any of them found out the 
true nature of such assignments. On a few occasions, 
elite teams of vampires, some plucked still breathing 
from the trenches, were used in similar circumstances. 
Let’s not forget that the Great War was called a 
World War for a reason, and not just because Germany 
started it. Throughout Africa, South America and various 
islands in the Indian Ocean, aboriginal people died by the 
thousands, fighting other aboriginal people on behalf of 
their colonial masters back in Europe. Gangrel who had 
chosen to settle in these remote locations found many of 
the same benefits as their European sires — war means 
death, which means free blood for the taking — but often 
spread equatorial disease farther than they wanted, and 
were sometimes singled out as members of the wrong 
side during a skirmish. Embraced natives typically fared 
better than their sires, and of course some of them used 
such conditions to escape their sires.
Back in America, attitudes were more pragmatic than 
in Europe. A general sentiment spread among American 
Gangrel that the Old World was committing suicide, 
and should be allowed a graceful death. When names of 
European Gangrel destroyed by the fighting drifted across 
the Atlantic, only a few Americans chose to return to the 
Old World and seize their sires’ territory. Most preferred 
their new home, even if it had once been a place of exile.
The Great War
Consider that you had five glacial empires stuck 
rammed up against each other, each one growing ex-
ponentially and becoming ever-more crowded every 
night; multiply it by rising nationalism, socialism and 
anarchism, and is it any surprise what happened when 
Gavrilo Princip killed Archduke Ferdinand and greased 
the stuck axle of the European war machine?
A comment from Zeke J.
Princip’s anarchist group, the one that wanted the down-
fall of Serbia, called itself the Black Hand. I cannot bring 
myself to believe that this was mere coincidence — and believe 
me, with all the implications such a thing has, I’d prefer it 
was. The Black Hand is the Sabbat, as we all know, so the 
question that has to leap to mind is: what did the Sabbat gain 
from starting the First World War? 
War doesn’t inherently further the aims of the Sabbat, 
as I read things. Hell, in some respects it furthers the aims 
of the Camarilla, since we all know the Camarilla has all 
the world’s arms dealers under its thumbs, and war makes 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
29
The Russian Revolution
The Russian Revolution itself wasn’t that big a deal 
for us Gangrel; mortal governments change all the time. 
The Brujah were up in arms, of course, but they get that 
way any time you let them capitalize the word “revolution”. 
The only noteworthy event for the Gangrel was that Igor 
Strensky’s brood, about half a dozen Camarilla Gangrel, 
left the sect for the Sabbat just as Czar Nicholas breathed 
his last. The pack fled their territory south of Moscow and 
found one of the rare European Sabbat strongholds, some-
where in the Balkans or Carpathians, I’m told. They bought 
their freedom with an enormous stash of stolen Russian 
Orthodox and pre-Christian Russian artifacts and idols; 
some of them were surely mystical and all were priceless.
The Twenties
The ‘20s were a time of turmoil and opportunity. 
From Prohibition to the women’s suffrage movement, 
society in America turned upside down. In Europe things 
were far harder; resources were scarce in the wake of the 
Great War, and though the Allies tried to return to the 
status quo antebellum, changes in Italy, Germany and 
Russia made it clear that such a thing was impossible. 
Now I’ll discuss a topic that may make cultured, 
late-generation modern vampires a little uncomfortable. 
By that I mean race, of course. Hip modern vampires 
aren’t supposed to care about race, you know; as my 
Anderson’s Folly
Michael Anderson was a relatively young 
Gangrel with a great vision. Inspired by the 
building of the Panama Canal and the skyscrap-
ers of New York and Chicago, in 1919 Anderson 
optimistically suggested to the primogen of Den-
ver that they invest in the construction of a vast 
underground city for Kindred. In this fashion, he 
suggested, Cainites from across the world would 
have a safe, neutral haven, and be able to interact 
with the waking world day and night.
The primogen of Denver hardly had time to 
burst Anderson’s flimsy bubble of a plan before 
the neonate tripped off to begin planning “New 
Enoch”. He consulted geological surveys, old mine 
maps and so on. It was never built, of course; as 
you might imagine, a Pollyanna like Michael 
Anderson didn’t stand a chance in negotiations 
with century-old vampires. He survived, at least; I 
hear he’s got a commune outside Colorado Springs 
that accepts him as its guru. According to legend, 
Anderson’s maps and schematics are still around 
somewhere; the prince of Denver seized them in 
1920 and they haven’t been seen since.


Clanbook: Gangrel
30
The Celtic Revival  
and Irish Revolution
In 1914 the British Parliament passed an act 
giving limited home rule to Ireland. The start of 
the Great War delayed that law’s effect, to the 
frustration of many Irishmen; a “Celtic Revival” 
spread throughout Ireland, emphasizing that 
nation’s traditional arts and heritage, and its his-
torical independence from the English. On Easter 
Monday, 1916, Patrick Pearse read a Declaration 
of Independence, proclaiming Ireland free of the 
United Kingdom; Pearse and his brethren in 
the Irish Republican Brotherhood assumed that 
Britain would be too busy fighting the Germans 
to waste its resources on a minor revolution in 
its own backyard. Pearse was wrong. The British 
decimated the IRB forces in a matter of weeks, 
and the 15 leaders of the revolution were swiftly 
executed. In subsequent years a somewhat more 
peaceable separation between the two nations 
would take place.
To Irish Gangrel, especially those of Celtic 
heritage, the Celtic Revival and the Revolu-
tion were like a lightning strike. Neonates and 
ancillae who had known nothing but British 
dominance throughout their lives and unlives 
were thrilled for the chance to lash out at their 
royal oppressors. A few younger Gangrel even 
styled themselves neo-pagan “Lhiannan,” after 
a long-extinct bloodline. They surely were not 
members of that group, but appearances were as 
important as consanguinity back in those nights.
friend Alicia M. says, “They all taste the same.” Back 
in the ‘20s, people didn’t care about race either, because 
it was self-evident that blacks, Indians, Italians, Irish 
and the rest of those people were inferior to the white 
Anglo-Saxon Protestant American. Oh, sure, we didn’t 
keep the black man in chains anymore, but that didn’t 
mean you even wanted him looking at your daughter.
Many Gangrel on the fringes of Cainite society found 
it easier to feed from the disenfranchised or the foreigner 
than from the city-dwelling Cracker businessman and his 
family. After all, some Ventrue or Tremere might have 
claimed that businessman’s apartment building as domain. 
On the wrong side of the tracks the Gangrel had only to 
compete with the Brujah and Nosferatu and the odd Caitiff. 
This state of affairs began long before the ‘20s, of course, 
so I’m sure the modern reader won’t be surprised that Clan 
Gangrel’s membership hails from a pretty diverse group.
As a side note, I should point out that the Ku Klux 
Klan was enormous back in those nights. And it wasn’t 
just a bunch of good ol’ boys sittin’ in a pickup truck 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
31
lookin’ for a nigger to lynch. The KKK was a civic 
organization; in many towns nearly every white male 
was a member. The group did many good deeds, from 
supporting orphanages to cleaning up litter. To politi-
cians the KKK’s endorsement often meant the difference 
between re-election and retirement. KKK politicians held 
mayorships and state offices from Indiana to Oregon.
The Gangrel had their own interactions with the 
Klan. Jack Hanson, a Gangrel who was prince of India-
napolis for about three months in the 1930s, had been 
a Klansman in life. He preferred to feed from the “lesser 
races,” as he called them; he killed them when he could. 
He Embraced at least one of his fellow Klansmen, a 
gentleman who asks to remain anonymous. Hanson’s 
sloppiness in feeding brought him to an archon’s at-
tention, and prince or no, I guess it’s true that there’s 
always a bigger fish. Shame about old Jack. The flipside 
of Jack Hanson’s story is Marcus Washburn, a black man. 
Marcus made the mistake of lingering a bit too long over 
his lemonade while cutting John Phillips’s lawn one July 
afternoon; he compounded that by smiling once or twice 
at Mrs. Phillips. Two nights later, Marcus found himself 
hog-tied and on his way to his own funeral, where he 
would have met his end if it hadn’t been for a Gangrel 
who freed him, killed two men, and Embraced Marcus.
Of course, Marcus didn’t make it either. No one was 
surprised when he took his revenge on John Phillips; 
everyone was surprised when John’s wife Mary turned 
out to be a Lupine, who ripped Marcus in half.
Prohibition
I don’t know where my parents’ generation came 
up with stuff like this. The abolition of alcohol would 
have been a crisis for vampires everywhere if it had been 
taken seriously, as the elimination of the drunken target 
would have made the Hunt far more difficult. As it was, 
Prohibition was a great opportunity for Kindred with their 
fingers in organized crime. Of course, that wasn’t usually 
Clan Gangrel, either collectively or as individuals. We got 
the scraps and the dregs; some of our contacts or ghouls 
might be mob enforcers or made men, but the capos were 
generally Ventrue, Brujah or Giovanni tools, at least those 
who were under the sway of Kindred.
So, as usual, something big occurs in mortal society, 
and because we’re on the outskirts, for us it might as well 
have never happened.
The Automobile
The automobile eventually reduced the value of 
the Gangrel cachet in a big way. Before this, of course, 
railroads could kick our ass for speed, but not for ver-
satility: if you wanted something to get to an unusual 
destination and you knew the railway stations were being 
watched, you could go to a Gangrel and guarantee that 
it’d get there as fast and securely as possible. We had 
ways of moving around the countryside quickly that no 
one this side of the Lupines could match. 
But with the advent of the car, an elder could send 
ghouls — or even childer or other Kindred — to get to a 
remote destination in a hurry, fairly safely. Some Gangrel 
did their best to sabotage this in the early nights. My sire 
tells me proudly of the time he learned that the prince 
of Cincinnati was sending his favored childe to Toledo 
with some important paperwork in a brand new Model 
T. He scored all sorts of points by letting the Lupines of 
the Black Swamp in on the voyage; the Lupines thanked 
him, the anarchs of Cincinnati thanked him, and an 
out-of-favor childe of Cincinnati’s prince thanked him. 
That sort of thing still goes on tonight, but it’s much 
harder when four-lane superhighways usher thousands 
of vehicles in and out of major cities on a daily basis.
The Great Depression
It was all a big goddamn mess, of course. Nobody 
was sure why everything was going to hell, but everybody 
had a solution. We had the communists, the anarchists, 
the national socialists and, God save us, we had Hoover. 
I was a kid during the Depression. It wasn’t much fun; 
my parents scrambled for work, scrimped to save money, 
and we had plenty of meatless days. We literally boiled 
shoes for broth at times.
My sire tells the story differently. The Great Depres-
sion was a bonanza for our clan. Part of the reason the 
Depression hurt so many people was that ordinary folks 
wagered big money on the stock market; really risky 
stocks were the best way to make a killing quick. And 
those folks who’d gambled on high-risk stocks lost their 
shirts. Vampires don’t invest that way. When you have to 
be around for two or three centuries, you appreciate the 
power of compound interest on a low-risk investment. 
My sire — no businessman — cleaned up dur-
ing the Depression. As banks foreclosed on desperate 
landowners, he swept in and snapped up haven after 
haven at a fraction of their true value. When evicted 
impoverished renters left the cities in droves, hoping to 
eke out a subsistence lifestyle on the outskirts of town, 
my sire was there with sharp teeth and bright red eyes. 
To this night he speaks with great fondness of the Great 
Depression; he tells me he’s looking forward to seeing 
the current stock market bubble burst. 
The Nazi Party
In 1938 a pride of Gangrel rose up out of nowhere, 
all espousing a common political credo and vowing 
to take drastic action. This wasn’t the first time such 
a thing had happened; it’s a tradition dating back at 
least as far as the American Revolution. Most often, a 
Gangrel neonate holds a bit too tightly to his mortal 
politics after his Embrace, and then runs to Embrace a 


Clanbook: Gangrel
32
group of his cronies as soon as his sire presents him to 
the local primogen as a recognized vampire. This kind 
of thing happens far more often among the Brujah, I’m 
told, and these nights it only really happens in certain 
cities. These anarchs were fascists; they made their 
havens in western Germany.
This brood, which called itself the Fist, supported 
Chancellor Hitler’s nationalistic and racist fervor; its 
members terrorized enemies of the Fatherland whenever 
they had a chance. In later years, the Masquerade in 
Berlin would stretch sufficiently to allow the group great 
latitude, but before the Second World War, the prince of 
Berlin had several members of this pride blood hunted. 
To compound things in Germany, around this time 
a new group calling itself the Waelkyrige sprang up in 
Scandinavia and spread their influence throughout north-
central Europe. These Cainites upheld the Viking ethic 
to the fullest; they apparently believed themselves to be 
modern incarnations of the mythical Valkyries. They 
claimed to follow a female Gangrel called Brunhilde. If 
they really do consider themselves to be the choosers of 
the slain — for that is the mythical role of the Valkyries 
— one imagines that they made an awful lot of battlefield 
Embraces during the war. Regardless, you don’t hear too 
much about them in the US anymore. I have no doubt 
that they’re the hellraisers of the Black Forest, though. 
Anyone who voluntarily makes her haven in Lupine 
territory earns my respect as a powerful Kindred indeed.
Stalin’s Revolution
Stalin’s paranoia killed 18 million people in the 
Soviet Union before the old man finally died, and he 
probably would have done it even without the Brujah 
leaning on him. To be blunt, Soviet Gangrel ate as many 
of them as they thought they could get away with. Fiercely 
independent Russian small farmers resisted being herded 
onto collectives; to spite their masters, they slaughtered 
millions of sheep, pigs and goats in a very short time. 
They feasted, for a year or so. Then starvation kicked 
in, and then Soviet Gangrel fed very well.
In Moscow, after one particularly close brush with the 
Masquerade, the Russian Brujah called for the destruction 
of especially animalistic or deranged elders. The close brush 
came from a very bestial Gangrel elder, and Muscovite 
Gangrel immediately assumed that this was the council’s 
way of declaring war on the clan. This led to fighting in 
the streets and countryside; there would be little peace 
until the Second World War fell upon the USSR.
The Second World War
Then came a hellish atrocity that we didn’t have 
anything to do with.
That’s a lie, of course. We had something to do 
with it, but we didn’t start it and we didn’t finish it. We 
changed bits here and there; more than one Gangrel 
intercepted and changed battle orders to keep fighting 
away from a treasured haven. And we had a fair amount 
of work when Nazis, Jews, Frenchmen and Kindred all 
smuggled art and other valuables out of Europe.
I was Embraced during the Second World War, during 
fighting in the Ardennes; I’m an American boy. As you 
might imagine, my perspective on Gangrel activity in 
Europe during the war is a little skewed. My sire passed 
along some of the information below; after the wild 
times I went through right after my Embrace, it took a 
few years before we were on speaking terms once again.
Across Eastern Europe, the Nazis upended the local 
mortal populations and tossed centuries-old Kindred 
social structures to the four winds. As the Germans 
relocated Jews and other “undesirables,” Kindred linked 
to their communities lost a great deal of influence. I’m 
told that Janos Beck, a Warsaw Ventrue with a taste 
for Jews’ blood, had it particularly hard after the first 
couple of years of the war; eventually he chose a blood 
bond to a Jewish Gangrel companion of my sire rather 
than risk Final Death. Not too many Kindred faced the 
danger of Nazi death camps directly, but a fair number 
of them had to move around Europe when their herds 
were drafted, dissolved or slaughtered, and when Kindred 
have to move around Europe, Gangrel can make a profit. 
But the relocations and camps certainly affected 
the Gangrel negatively. Plenty of our clan relied on 
Rroma or Jewish herds. Ashton’s text has some com-
mentary about a Gangrel, “Talos,” who was captured 
by the Nazis and ended up in a death camp at Glödker 
along with a few dozen Rroma, his herd. If you believe 
Ashton, this moron went on to Embrace a score of the 
herd, enabling the bunch to destroy the camp and make 
their escape. I don’t believe Ashton. He says this Talos 
was a member of the Seventh Generation. I’ve only met 
one seventh-generation vampire — I can’t conceive of 
any way the Germans could have caught and contained 
one of those creatures; an armored platoon wouldn’t 
stand a chance. Either Ashton is full of it, or Talos let 
himself be captured to Embrace his herd. I’ve never met 
anyone who claimed to know any of Talos’ childer, and 
that makes me suspicious that Ashton made the story 
up to make his readers feel good about Gangrel activity 
during the Holocaust.
Many Gangrel behaved reprehensibly during the 
Holocaust. One possibly apocryphal tale concerns a 
Rroma Gangrel, Daria, whose company was rounded up 
and taken to a work camp. Unlike the Talos stories, our 
clanswoman did nothing to free her herd, but rather slept 
in the earth during the day and crept into camp after 
sundown to drink their blood. This situation remained 
until the SS moved Daria’s Gypsies to a distant camp 
and she lost track of them. 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
33
Daria’s story is not unique; the Fist, who I mentioned 
above, also apparently fed heavily from the camps. She 
and her ilk proved that many vampires are nothing 
more than opportunistic scavengers. Few Kindred of any 
clan, my Gangrel sire included, took any noble action 
during the Second World War; the typical Cainite ran 
for a safe haven.
In retrospect, I have to wonder what kind of mon-
ster lurks around mechanized battlefields looking for a 
potential childe. With my sire not around, I think I can 
safely answer this question: a pervert or a madman. The 
battlefields of the European and Asian theaters were far 
too deadly for vampires to just wander about looking for 
childer. Wandering around looking for blood is something 
else altogether; as with other wars I’ve described, plenty 
of blood was on hand for the enterprising vampire. As 
numerical limits. The Camarilla tells us that for each 
vampire in a city there must be 100,000 humans. Experi-
ence with anarchs and the Sabbat tells us that figure is 
disproportionately low; there may be in some places as 
many as one vampire for each 10,000 humans. But let 
us use the 100,000 figure, as it is conservative enough to 
make a point clear. In the Second World War, 60 million 
humans died. By the most conservative estimate, then, 
600 vampires lost their place in the world, most of those 
in Europe. Some of those would have been Cathayans, 
of course, and many Kindred were destroyed during the 
war, but the point remained: hundreds of the Children 
of Caine had no place left to them. 
What to do? As the eyes of the world continued 
to gaze on America, the get of Caine did the same; en-
trenched elders who’d survived the war in Europe sent 
their most troublesome childer over the Atlantic to the 
States. The Gangrel Clan, never one to act as a unified 
whole, did not decide collectively to send particular 
vampires west. But the wilderness of post-war Europe was 
a sparse and fragile thing; there just wasn’t that much 
space available for Gangrel neonates to claim territory 
of their own, and the mortal population was depleted 
sufficiently that elder Gangrel like Wilhelm Koenig ex-
panded their own claims until they felt secure. Dozens of 
neonates and ancillae found passage to America aboard 
cargo and passenger ships. Some settled in the United 
States, while others migrated south to Latin America or 
north to the sparsely populated wilds of Canada.
The Siege of Leningrad
The German Wehrmacht laid in a siege against the 
Soviet city of Leningrad in August of 1941; the city 
would not be liberated until January of 1944, a span of 
more than 900 days. Mortals starved to death by the 
thousands; stew made of weeds and bread made of wood 
shavings were both seen quite frequently in the city. 
Cainites had it little better. By the end of the siege, the 
entirety of Leningrad’s undead population had either fled, 
been destroyed or voluntarily entered torpor to escape 
the ravages of hunger. Those who fled had to rely on the 
“good graces” of Soviet Gangrel, many of whom were on 
the outs with the Soviet Brujah council. Many of the 
debts that Soviet Kindred earned during the siege were 
repaid in the late 1980s and early 1990s with political 
influence or great sums of Western cash.
It’s worth noting, however, that most of the Kindred 
who were around Leningrad during the Siege remember 
three or four particularly powerful elders who voluntarily 
dropped into torpor in ’41 or ’42 who have yet to return 
to activity. They might have been destroyed; nearly 
everything of value in Leningrad has been looted at 
least once. Or, if you believe in fairy tales, something 
else might have gotten a hold of them…
Bletchley Park
That the British and American forces had as 
much success in the Second World War as they did 
can be partially credited to the hardworking men 
and women of Bletchley Park, in England. Bletchley 
Park was the world’s first 24-hour cryptography unit; 
it was dedicated to the decrypting of thousands of 
Nazi radio messages throughout the war.
The Gangrel have been involved in some form 
of cryptography longer than any Kindred. When you 
have to leave messages out in the woods at night 
for your clanmates to run into, you get cautious, 
quickly. Codes (rather than ciphers) of previous 
centuries have revolved around Beowulf, the Bible 
or the collected works of Shakespeare; in the middle 
of the 19th century, however, ciphers became all 
the rage among educated Gangrel. Thus, Gangrel 
and their ghouls lurked in the halls of the math de-
partments of Princeton and Cambridge, and at least 
paid some attention to the goings-on at Bletchley 
Park. Since the Second World War, most written 
Camarilla communications use the strongest pos-
sible encryption (to hell with the NSA), and this 
is largely due to the influence of those Gangrel who 
were familiar with codes and encryption and had 
either Xaviar or Karsh’s ear.
I’ve mentioned before, not too many clans other than 
the Gangrel had the ability to stay out in the open for 
long enough to take such advantage. Of course, plenty 
of WWII fighting took place in cities, which gave similar 
opportunity to Kindred of other clans.
A simple question of mathematics is at work here. 
Kindred have always been the sorts of creatures to push 


Clanbook: Gangrel
34
Two Travelers’ Tales
Michael Flannery, an Irish Gangrel, became re-
nowned throughout the Gangrel clan for “Flannery’s 
Flight,” a feat which may only be apocryphal. Flannery 
is said to have flown in bat form the distance from Do-
negal, Ireland, to Boston, Massachusetts, in the terrible 
winter of 1946-7. Rumors abound as to how he might 
have accomplished such a thing: Flannery was secretly 
a Methuselah who did not need to take time to feed 
and spent his days a few dozen meters below the surface 
of the Atlantic; Flannery flew northward to the Arctic 
Circle, where the sun remained below the horizon 24 
hours a day, and fed on Eskimos and seals; Flannery 
took advantage of enormous transatlantic shipping 
volume to rest on (and feed from) cargo ships moving 
westward. The truth will never be known; a pack of 
Sabbat vampires fell upon him as he traveled through 
New York in ’48, and he has not been seen since. So 
much for the Methuselah theory, at least. Maybe.
Vyechislav Dolcek, by contrast, came from Britain 
to the United States aboard the passenger liner Queen 
Elizabeth, whose primary duty immediately after the war 
was to transport American soldiers home. Dolcek, a 
Slavic Gangrel who had spent seven years in Warsaw 
through the war, had learned the arts of concealment 
and disguise from Polish Nosferatu. He managed to pose 
as a seasick American infantryman for the trip across 
the Atlantic, feeding sparingly from his bunkmates late 
at night. Upon arriving in the US, Dolcek moved into 
Appalachia, where he exists during the Final Nights.
bunch of people to know. But we don’t join the anarchs 
as a way to try to, like, fight the power, man.
Xaviar apparently dispatched one of his most trusted 
archons, Seth Geddes, to California to attempt to parse 
the situation, but Geddes — whose great love for mys-
teries and conspiracies is currently matched only by my 
acquaintance Zeke J., and had no peer in the 1940s — 
met the Final Death mysteriously before heading west. 
A Tremere in Xaviar’s entourage verified a pile of ashes 
found in St. Louis as being Geddes’s only remains; they 
were found near the shore of the Mississippi. Geddes’ 
personal files had been ransacked, and at least one of 
his havens burned nearly to the ground. I honestly don’t 
know what he found. I think I’m glad.
The Fifties
I’ve mentioned elsewhere that when a person re-
ceives the Embrace, she doesn’t automatically abandon 
her life’s priorities. Things shift around, sure, but if 
Jane Smith is an ardent Republican, she’s not likely to 
become a Communist immediately upon her Embrace. 
Many people’s lifelong convictions take precedence over 
Kindred sectarian struggles and the internal struggle 
against the Beast. At least, they do for maybe the first 
century, but that’s a different story. Anyway.…
That explains the number of Cainite spies operat-
ing throughout Central and Eastern Europe throughout 
the Cold War. Our clan weighed heavily among them. 
Like all periods of turmoil, the postwar years in Europe 
were a time of great opportunity for bold Kindred. 
Sure, Nosferatu were probably the top spies; they’re 
built for sneaking. But we do not slouch, and the City 
Gangrel among the Sabbat can match the Nosferatu 
when they have to. Most of those working as opera-
tives were nominally Camarilla members, but honestly, 
Camarilla membership didn’t mean that much at that 
point. National loyalty and political alignment were 
far more important: It didn’t matter whether a Sabbat 
City Gangrel or a Camarilla Nosferatu drove the black 
Mercedes tailing you. The point was that the driver was 
Russian, and that meant trouble. 
The McCarthy Era
Periodically every society goes through a period of 
rampant xenophobia and paranoia. McCarthy’s rampage 
in the ‘50s wasn’t even the first one for the US this 
century — the Red Scare of the early ‘20s takes that 
prize — but it is the one I remember best. The mad 
lookout for Commies was just the latest incarnation of 
the Inquisition.
Times of paranoia cause trouble for Cainites, regard-
less of sect. The dangers are great and the benefits are few. 
When mortals fervently look out for anyone suspicious 
or weird, vampires have a much harder time hiding. 
Ordinary nightly activity becomes nearly impossible. 
The Anarch Free State
In 1944 anarchs across the West Coast erupted in a 
frenzy after the prince of Los Angeles took particularly 
harsh actions against an anarch figurehead named Jeremy 
MacNeil. When all was said and done, several cities in 
California were no longer strictly “Camarilla cities”; 
they had no princes, and were beholden only to their 
own sets of rules and some small amount of civic order. 
It was a crazy couple of decades; it was a time of great 
opportunity for many Gangrel neonates. 
It has never been the case that newly Embraced 
Gangrel are oppressed members of a vampiric underclass. 
Sure, insofar as the Gangrel clan has always been a col-
lection of outsiders, we have lacked material resources 
that are plentiful for our erstwhile counterparts in other 
Camarilla clans. But unlike neonates in those clans, we 
are relatively free to act, even just a few years after our 
deaths. Young Gangrel are kept on long leashes with 
sharp collars. We don’t have much to rebel against, most 
of the time. That doesn’t keep us from joining the local 
pack of anarchs; sometimes that pack makes a real good 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
35
Sure, you can always try and sic the Red-crazed FBI on 
your enemies, but they’re probably trying to do the same 
to you. And I don’t have to remind you how hard a time 
the average Gangrel has at pulling government strings. 
Zeke J., the conspiracy theorist, tells me that McCar-
thy and Roy Cohn were “controlled” by the Camarilla, 
but as with many of Zeke’s claims, I don’t buy it. The 
Camarilla gets very little out of the House Un-American 
Activities Committee. If powerful DC vampires were 
trying to expose rivals’ pawns, they put themselves at far 
too much risk in doing so. It’s possible that a young, dumb 
Ventrue or Tremere had Tailgunner Joe under his thumb, 
but I imagine we would have heard about it beforehand.
Regardless of the goings-on in DC, Clan Gangrel 
was largely able to avoid trouble, simply by virtue of 
knowing when and how to go to ground. Hell, in some 
cases we even improved our lot: My acquaintance Josie 
T., from out toward Omaha, took regular heat from the 
local prince’s boys until the prince was spotted in public 
one too many times and had to get out of town in a hurry. 
Josie T.’s a much happier Lick now.
In ’55, I should mention, a good-sized pride of 
Gangrel that roamed the Florida Everglades ran into 
a pack of werewolves. Rodriguez’s pride had reported 
Lupine activity to the prince of Tallahassee for years. I 
guess they ran into a holy site or something. Only one 
of Rodriguez’s childer, Muñoz by name, escaped with his 
unlife, and he was somewhat traumatized by the fight, 
so details aren’t very clear. Eight Gangrel, all ninth and 
10th generation, aged between 10 and 200 years, muddied 
the swamp with their ashes that night. If Muñoz is to be 
believed, they faced close to 50 werewolves. I don’t know 
the truth. I know I stay out of the Everglades, even now.
Suburbia
Unlike the sneers it draws from most Kindred, sub-
urbia was tailor-made for Gangrel. God bless William 
Levitt, for he gave unto us the suburb. The Lupines get 
antsy when we get too far into the woods — and as you 
are aware, Lupines aren’t renowned for their restraint. 
But we’re not good at dealing with high-handed urban 
Kindred politics, especially not when the other big 
Camarilla clans are entrenched downtown already. 
1950s urban planners surrounded their cities with rings 
of cookie-cutter homes, and many Gangrel broods had 
great success in the ‘burbs after the Commie Menace 
retreated to a dull background hum.
This goes for Sabbat as well as Camarilla. During the 
‘50s, ‘60s and even ‘70s dozens of turf wars were fought over 
pathetic subdivisions with names like Hartmont Acres and 
Beau Pines. Gangrel with perverse senses of humor might 
Embrace a lawn-mowing Dad or chainsmoking Mom, and 
I know one eternal teenager whose parents thought for 20 
years that his sleeping habits and pale complexion were “just 


Clanbook: Gangrel
36
part of a phase.” The suburbs helped vampires conceal a 
lot of strange activity; after the McCarthy problems, many 
people were so eager to get back to a normal existence that 
they deliberately ignored even their neighbors’ most outré 
habits. Don’t believe me? Look at all the stories of child-
hood abuse, alcoholism, drug abuse and sexual perversion 
in the suburbs that we didn’t hear about until tabloid TV 
got into the picture. That’s not all they were hiding.
Civil Rights
Along with many fine other underprivileged groups, 
Gangrel certainly Embraced plenty of blacks in the southern 
US. After the Civil War, millions of African-Americans 
moved north; those vampires who used blacks as herd or 
servants moved with them. But across the country, blacks 
agitated for rights owed to them as American citizens, and 
several black Gangrel were among those pushing for such 
rights. For the vampires, existing in a situation of such 
supreme inequality made their lives unnecessarily difficult, 
and those vampires did the best they could to aid the kine 
who tried to better the lot of the black man.
There were race problems among the Kindred, and 
there still are. It’s all well and good to pretend that we 
are united above humanity, but the Embrace does not 
happen in a vacuum. Plenty of white Kindred look down 
at black Kindred. Plenty of Gangrel choose their childer 
from among oppressed groups (out of sympathy, similarity, 
paternalism or simple convenience) and accordingly, the 
Gangrel take a disproportionate amount of abuse.
In 1962 we saw a near-perfect repeat of Seth Ged-
des’s death. William Coolidge, another Gangrel — this 
time a confidant of the mysterious Madame Guil — had 
apparently spent four years investigating Cainite traffic 
back and forth across the Rio Grande. His goal, according 
to colleagues, was to identify Sabbat packs that regularly 
traveled from Texas to Mexico. No one knows for sure 
who got him, but, as with Geddes, Coolidge’s remains 
were discovered on the shore of a nearby river (the Rio 
Grande), and his nearest haven ransacked and burned.
The ‘60s
The Kennedy Assassination
This is an aside by the esteemed Zeke J. Zeke is less 
“together” than most people I hang around with; judging 
from the fur on his face and the length of his fangs he’s 
seen more than his fair share of frenzy. He says he was 
an archon under Luchenko through 1975, but I’m not 
sure I believe him, since I was fairly certain that Xaviar 
was justicar since before my Embrace up through ’98. 
I’m also not convinced that Zeke was ever stable enough 
to serve as an archon. But the hell with it — here’s his 
posting. Believe what you want.
The last time I checked, over 50 books still in print 
claimed to uncover the truth behind John F. Kennedy’s death. 
Not one of them has it right, but if you look at a couple of 
the more reputable books and mix it in with what we know 
as Kindred, you get a pretty clear picture of what’s going on.
I can sum it up in two words: Kennedy knew. The Ca-
marilla, not the Bavarian Illuminati, not the Priory of Sion, 
nor any of those other institutions, is the oldest conspiracy 
in the world, and, like those other conspiracies, its masters 
are willing to kill anyone to keep their secret.
How he found out the truth is anyone’s guess. By vir-
tue of his family’s fortune and his association with mobsters 
like Giancana and high rollers like Sinatra, Jack had lurked 
around the fringes of our power structure for long enough to 
get an inkling of the truth. His girlfriend Marilyn may have 
spent time as a blood doll to a stupid Toreador anarch in LA, 
or she might just have rubbed elbows with Giancana’s other 
dead friends. I’m not clear on the details, but they don’t really 
matter. Jack knew, and the wrong people suspected that he was 
going to go public after the ’64 election. Now, smart folk like 
you and me, we know that no sooner would the president say, 
“Vampires!” than everyone else in the government would say, 
“Impeachment!” but not everyone is as clever as me and you.
The Inner Council ordered the hit; the Gangrel Justicar 
at the time, Luchenko, coordinated the activity of our tools in 
the Mafia. Luchenko used a couple of surrogates, David Ferrie 
and Eladio del Valle, to get New Orleans mob boss Carlos 
Marcello to organize the hit. Marcello didn’t have to learn hard 
on his boy Lee Harvey to persuade him to do the deed, and 
we all know that Jack Ruby owed his livelihood to the Mob.
It was a pain in the ass to clean up. I worked for 
Luchenko as an archon in the ‘60s and early ‘70s. Luchenko 
had me put down Eladio del Valle in Miami myself, and to 
make sure that no Kindred would get him, he insisted that I 
mangle the corpse pretty seriously. At the same time, others 
nailed David Ferrie in New Orleans. Marcello bragged to 
Sammy Giancana and Johnny Roselli, and both of those 
bastards got subpoenaed to the House. Putting them down 
was equally difficult. When all was said and done and the 
Johnson administration had made its own messes, we had 
to coordinate half the Nixon administration to clean up the 
rest of the paper trail back to us. 
The Mothman
My conspiracy-nut friend Zeke J. loves stories about 
the Mothman. 1968, in the Ohio River Valley in West 
Virginia, authorities list dozens of sightings of a being who 
the locals called “the Mothman” (complete with mothlike 
wings and bright red eyes), along with many other strange 
events such as cattle mutilations, men in black and UFOs. 
He spouted off a few major prophecies (including one about 
the Pope’s stabbing and another about RFK’s assassination) 
and then, after a few months, vanished, never to return. 
The general public assumes that if the Mothman existed 
at all, he must have been an extraterrestrial.
Mothman was an insane, heavily disfigured Gangrel; 
no one is quite sure which sect he belonged to. It didn’t 


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
37
matter, really; he was a threat to the Masquerade no 
matter where he came from. Luchenko sent in several 
of his archons to manage the chaos slowly swirling into 
being around the Mothman; one archon in particular, 
who called himself Indrid Cold, made himself up as an 
extraterrestrial in order to help portray the entire Ohio 
Valley as a bunch of hysterical backwoods hicks. The rest 
of Luchenko’s posse tracked, hunted and killed the Moth-
man without a lick of remorse; it took another month to 
tidy up the Masquerade in the area by slowly scaling down 
the amount of weirdness to its usual background level. 
Nosferatu feel much the same way, in their own fashion. 
Several Kindred reside in Ulanbaator, Mongolia; in 
theory they claim to keep their eyes on the Cathayan 
vampires in China. In practice they pull the same shit 
as Kindred in any other city do. Back in ’83, one of the 
dead residents of Ulanbaator was a Gangrel archon 
named Yevgeny Bodunov. 
Bodunov spread a story that a couple of neonates 
had sworn up and down was the truth. It seems that 
one night while they rode the southern steppe in the 
old Mongol style, occasionally feeding from their trot-
ting horses, they passed a bit too far into to the Gobi. 
There they swear they saw a huge, bestial vampire pull 
itself up out of the sand into vague consciousness. With 
a wave of its hand, their horses bolted from their own 
supernatural control to the distant vampire’s side; he 
devoured both horses. While the monster was rapt, of 
course, our witnesses fled for Ulanbaator, screaming about 
newly awakened Methuselahs in the Gobi.
Bodunov admitted that the tale had more flaws than 
Andropov’s last medical report; I won’t even list the 
half dozen other things this story could be, for the sake 
of respecting your intelligence. But if you find yourself 
stuck in the Gobi in the near future, you might want 
to watch the sand.
In ’87 we had the third in a disturbing series of 
archon murders. This one was a Gangrel appointee of 
Petrodon’s, one Gail Lovett. I knew Gail; she was only 
about a century old. She was a strange one, to be honest; 
she was sort of a mathematical prodigy and hermit when 
she was Embraced and she never got much friendlier, 
though she did attend althings from time to time. Gail 
was an accounting whiz; she had a high-powered old 
minicomputer out in her cabin, in West Virginia, and 
she used to pore over business records, looking for hints 
of outside Kindred influence. When I spoke to her, in 
’85, she was actually going through century-old account 
books looking for discrepancies. Sort of monomaniacal, 
admittedly, but the work suited her.
Her ashes were found on the shore of the Kanawha 
River, near Charleston. Her cabin had been ransacked, 
the computer destroyed, and the rest of the place burned 
down. Never did find out what she was working on in 
’87. And now that Petrodon’s dead, I don’t imagine we’ll 
ever know for sure.
In the late ‘80s there was a public resurgence in 
ecological awareness. Municipalities all over the US 
started recycling trash; corporations began espousing 
environmentally friendly policies, and so on. In truth, 
environmental activism is an old cause, dating back at 
least to the years of Teddy Roosevelt; Greenpeace has 
been around for decades. I’m told that Lupines tend to 
be hard-core eco-fanatics, as well. 
A Surprise
If you’re reading this, you know the usual result 
of a confrontation between Kindred and Lupines. 
Imagine my surprise when stories began to circulate 
in the early ‘80s that a pack of werewolves was found 
in northern Norway during the winter of ‘77, drained 
of blood and frozen solid. Norway is historically 
Gangrel territory, so my clanmates and I jumped 
to the obvious conclusion. 
Some of my acquaintances dropped a line to 
some of their contacts in Oslo and called in a favor 
or two. Cainites in Oslo weren’t talking, however; 
it seemed that nothing short of a personal visit was 
going to pry any information out of them. None of 
us had time for that, so we wrote the whole thing 
off as a random rumor. Until March of ’82, when 
Kinssky had a disturbing dream about a two-handed 
Tyr ripping Fenris Wolf’s skull apart and lapping at 
the blood pouring from his neck. He got the strong 
impression that it related to the Oslo incident, 
and told me so. Kinssky made it out to the Anarch 
Free State a few years later, and I heard that he was 
destroyed. I don’t know what’s going on in Norway 
these nights, except for the rumors about Brunhilde.
The ‘80s
The ‘80s were all about money. Kindred I know who 
think we really control everything believe that this is 
the decade the Ventrue finally got their shit together, 
and let it trickle onto ghouls from Wall Street to Cali, 
Colombia. Wars between American and Soviet puppet 
states across the globe gave the Gangrel plenty of easy 
feeding. Petty revolts and counterinsurgency measures 
in Central America, South America, Africa and the 
Middle East frequently gave the Sabbat a shot at surging 
into a Camarilla city, or vice versa.
I receive a lot of international news. One nice thing 
about being part of a clan full of dead people who can 
turn into wolves, bats or mist is that we get around, and 
the proper authorities are never the wiser. I imagine the 


Clanbook: Gangrel
38
Contrary to what you might have heard, Gangrel 
aren’t always grizzled environmental warriors. Sure, some 
are, maybe even a sizable percentage. But not a majority. 
Most of us have unlives to worry about. Remember that 
Lupines thrive in pristine wilderness; it is not in our best 
interests to preserve such areas. Wild places are good; they 
are useful to us, and they are great places to escape from 
the pressures of city unlife. But spiking redwood forests or 
dismantling oil rigs is too much like work, and Kindred 
don’t have day jobs.
The ‘90s
I’m a big fan of the Internet. I picked up access back in 
’94, just before the big boom. Many non-Gangrel assume that 
because we prefer to spend time away from other Kindred, 
and wear a lot of denim, we’re technical idiots. Obviously 
these guys have never seen a cabin with a satellite dish. Only 
a minority of relatively young Gangrel are Net users, but 
like the joke goes, on the Internet, no one knows you’re a 
dog. So we get more converts every year. Secure chat servers 
and encrypted mail routers are just too nice not to use. It’s 
also a great deal easier to deal with other clans through the 
Net; the Toreador can concentrate on your deathless prose 
rather than the flea crawling across your forehead. Oh, get 
that look off your face, you know who you are.
As an additional bonus, when you’re conversing 
with someone else through the Net, either via e-mail 
or in real-time, you can be much more sure that your 
listener isn’t affecting your mind or words as you speak 
them. I have yet to hear of an emotion-affecting power 
that can be applied via modem. Admittedly, if someone’s 
given you a long-term mental twisting, the Net won’t 
make it go away, but every little bit of security helps. 
Since about 1990 there’s been an upswing in the 
number of Native American-run casino resorts across the 
US. Although many people are quick to judge gambling 
as an evil to be stamped out, these casinos bring wealth 
and prosperity to the reservations on which they sit. As 
was mentioned earlier, many Gangrel reside in or near 
reservations, and by the traditions of the Camarilla, the 
fortunes of Cainite’s herd are often her own fortune. That 
means that at least half a dozen Gangrel that I can name 
have come into pretty fantastic unexpected wealth and 
influence. Of course, three others have lost that wealth 
and influence to Ventrue or Giovanni who just wanted to 
give them a hand with the intricacies of high finance.… 
I don’t spend a lot of time with Sabbat vampires 
of any stripe. Too many of them are freaks or idiots or 
a charmless combination of both. After we went inde-
pendent last year, though, I ran into a pack of Sabbat 
in neutral territory (Abilene, if you have to ask) and 
we got to sharing bullshit stories. Among the tales of 
diablerie, debauchery and fire-jumping, I got just one 
gem: These guys, who call themselves the Silver Razors, 
ran into an amnesiac Gangrel in Massachusetts in ’92. 
The Gangrel insisted that he had no idea who he was, 
where he came from, or who his sire was.
The Silver Razors had a Tremere antitribu among 
them back in ’92 (and they clammed up when I asked 
what happened to him), and he wheedled Joe Anony-
mous until he donated a few drops of blood. The wizard 
then did his thing to the blood to learn Joe’s sire’s name, 
so they could track the guy down and find out what 
happened (or eat him; they weren’t too clear on that 
point). They didn’t recognize the sire’s name, and they 
were awfully surprised by the results.
Seems Joe Anonymous’s sire was a Gargoyle.
Joe sure wasn’t, though; he was clearly a Gangrel. 
The Razors argued for a few minutes about what their 
late Tremere friend had said. He’d either thought that Joe 
Anonymous was so thin-blooded that the Gargoyle curse 
had faded from him entirely, or that some Kindred wizards 
somewhere had discovered how to separate Gargoyle vam-
pires into their components. I don’t know quite what to 
make of that. And the Silver Razors changed the subject in 
a hurry when I asked what ended up happening to old Joe.
The End Times 
I got together with a few friends at an empty truck stop 
just after the first of the year to discuss current events; here 
s a transcript of that conversation, for the curious.
TOM: Does anyone know what happened last summer 
with the Ravnos? One of my guys back East says he knew a 
few, and hasn’t heard from them in more than six months.
DINA: I honestly do not know. I believe that many of 
them died; at whose hands, I have no idea.
BETH: My sire plays cat-and-mouse games with a Ravnos 
of his distant acquaintance, and he hasn’t heard anything 
from his old enemy since July. My sire’s kind of paranoid, 
though, and he just assumes that the guy’s putting together a 
serious attack.
ZEKE: I hear that the Tremere put together some kind 
of blood-serum that drove them all crazy. Kowalski says he 
saw two of them fight to the death, out in L.A. in July, and it 
was right after the two of them had fucked with a Tremere 
chantry outside of town.
TOM: Aren’t the Ravnos big in India and Pakistan? Do you 
think the big monsoon there last year hurt them any?
CHUCK: Nah. They’re undead; what’s a little rain? 
TOM: I suppose you’re right.
CHUCK: While we’re discussing current events, have you 
guys seen the Top Ten List of what Xaviar’s sentence to the 
Inner Circle was, back in ‘98? 
TOM: No, man, spill.
CHUCK: Okay (the sound of rustling papers):
10) “I’ve called NBC, CBS, and ABC, and the press con-
ference is scheduled for January 1st, 2001 at 9am. See you 
then!”
9) “Caine said to tell you you’re a bunch of losers.”
8) “Did you know that we can also feed off of corn? Iowa, 
here I come!”
7) “Swing dancing, guys, it’s the wave of the future.”


Chapter One: Stone, Steppe, and Sea: A History of the Gangrel Clan
39
6) “Would anyone like to know how to use the Gangrel 
arts to alter their gender at will?”
5) “If the Red Wings need a first-line forward, then by 
God I’m trying out for the team, Camarilla or no Camarilla.” 
4) “Rosebud…”
3) “No one ever caters these things.”
2) “I want a raise.”
1) “Either those drapes go or I go.”
TOM: That was really lame, Chuck. I’m sure if Xaviar 
sees it he’ll kick your ass.
CHUCK: I didn’t write it. Someone e-mailed it to me.
TOM: Whatever. So, anyone really know what happened 
with Xaviar?
DINA: I believe I have a pretty good idea what went on 
there. I know that when I heard word at the althing outside 
Dallas last spring, I was happy to leave the Camarilla.
TOM: Sure, I left, too, but it was because everyone else 
was leaving and I didn’t want Xaviar to find me and kick my 
ass personally. I didn’t make it to the althing. There have 
been a lot of dark rumors, but nothing concrete. Upcoming 
purges, or war with the Cathayans, or some kind of demonic 
pact with the Inner Council were the three big ones I heard. 
Other than the Gehenna thing, of course.
DINA: Xaviar saw something vastly more powerful than 
he thought could exist. I am not sure what he saw.
TOM: Well, come on, there aren’t any Antediluvians. 
The last one died in the Anarch Revolt or the fall of Carthage 
or the sack of Rome or your favorite historical tragedy. 
Xaviar saw what he thought was one and panicked?
ZEKE: Wheels within wheels, man. It’s the fucking Jyhad.
TOM: Shut up, Zeke. 
DINA: I don’t have many facts. Xaviar told the Inner 
Circle that they’d been lying to the Kindred for too long, and 
that he wouldn’t stand for it any longer.
TOM: What were they lying about? And why does he sud-
denly get all altruistic?
BETH: Whatever he saw, obviously, or whatever some-
body told him.
TOM: Xaviar didn’t run for the Sabbat, though, did he?
CHUCK: I hear he did.
DINA: No, he did not
CHUCK: Bullshit, what’s your source?
DINA: I know people in the Sabbat.
CHUCK: My ass you do.
TOM: Guys, this isn’t very productive. So nobody knows 
about Xaviar. What about the other big guns? Karsh? Mark 
Decker? Inyanga?
BETH: Karsh and Xaviar are not on speaking terms, if 
you ask my sire. They both call each other traitor.
CHUCK: Which one’s Decker again?
ZEKE: Prince of Milwaukee since about ‘91. Real hawk.
CHUCK: Right. I guess he’s still prince, then.
ZEKE: Yeah. And I think Inyanga helped set him up 
there. She left the Camarilla when Xaviar did, but she hasn’t 
gone Sabbat. Too smart.
DINA: Karsh remains Warlord of the Camarilla.
TOM: But in any case, it isn’t like the movers and shak-
ers have upped and joined the Sabbat.
BETH: My sire says that Karsh hates Jalan-Aajav even more 
than he hates Xaviar, so I guess Karsh isn’t likely to do that.
DINA: You’re right, Tom: even though a lot of Gangrel 
left the Camarilla, only a fraction joined the Sabbat. I know 
I don’t want any part of their bullshit Ozzy parties.
TOM: Some of you may have heard about the Chronicle 
of Secrets; it’s a series of verses which prophecy the End of 
Days, if you believe that kind of thing. There’s a couplet in 
there, about the End Times: “You will know them by the Wild 
Ones, who will hunt us even in the strongest city…” Some 
of my other people and I have talked about those lines a lot. 
Everyone assumes that it means the Lupines — remember 
Chicago in ’92? — but you know the thing about assumptions. 
My guys and I think that the Wild Ones aren’t Lupines at all, 
but rather elder Gangrel. Some of the oldest Gangrel are 
serious animals, if you get my drift: they look like beasts, and 
they think like beasts. And they are hungry, if you believe the 
stories. This sounds a lot like “Wild Ones” to me (and to my 
buddies), and to be truthful, it scares me a hell of a lot more 
than stories about pissed-off werewolves do.
DINA: Perhaps the Chronicle of Secrets is a call to arms, 
then, for those who believe the old stories and detest the 
vampires of the Camarilla.
BETH: Maybe it’s just the Sabbat? I mean, aren’t they 
supposed to be pretty wild, too?
TOM: I really doubt that the Chronicle of Secrets is 
written from a pro-Camarilla perspective, if it’s as old as ev-
eryone says. I mean, it predates the Camarilla. And for that 
matter, the justicars and princes denounce the fucking thing 
every chance they get. What did Modius call it? “Spiteful lies 
to make children out of monsters,” or something like that.
ZEKE: Wheels within wheels, man. Denounce the book 
all you want, and when the other dead guys are terrified of 
the boogeyman you can rob them blind.
TOM: Oh, come on. I hate that X-Files crap, Zeke. What 
the hell kind of elder master manipulator Methuselah is 
going to come up with a plot so simpleminded that  can 
see through it?
BETH: What other stuff is in the Chronicle of Secrets?
TOM: There’s a line about the Time of Thin Blood, and 
vampires that cannot create others. I forget how it goes 
precisely, but I guess that means that Caitiff are the heralds 
of the end.
DINA: Ah, then it seems wise to eliminate Caitiff where 
possible, no?
TOM: Yeah, I guess so, though we’re about the worst 
clan about creating them. Maybe if everyone just calmed 
down and agreed not to Embrace everyone for a year or 
two, this whole Gehenna thing would just blow over.
ZEKE: You’re pathetic, Tom.
TOM: Well, what choice do we have? Wait for our some 
monster to wake up and devour us all?
BETH: You think that myth is for real? I mean, I really don’t 
know what to believe at this point, it is all very new to me.
TOM: I don’t know. Sometimes I think I believe it.
ZEKE: What if I told you that our Founder was already 
up and about?
TOM: Zeke, if you told me that, I’d tell you to stick it 
where the sun still shines.
ZEKE: Hey, earlier you said that there were plenty of 
Gangrel who believe that she comes up out of torpor peri-
odically. Why not now?
DINA: Have you any evidence of this whatsoever?
ZEKE: If an Antediluvian didn’t want you to know she 
was up and about, do you think you’d know?
DINA: Absence of evidence is not proof of anything, you 
dimwit. 
TOM: Guys, this isn’t productive. If you don’t have 
anything more useful to add, I’ll just close the log up and 
end the document there.


Clanbook: Gangrel
40


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
41
Inside  
the Gangrel
Live with wolves, howl like a wolf.
— Russian proverb
The Gangrel, taken as a clan, are a contradiction. 
This is to be expected, as a stereotype cannot by its very 
purpose describe diversity. The stereotypical Gangrel is 
sullen, uncommunicative, ill-mannered and prone to 
spend great stretches of time alone in the wilderness. 
This stereotype is not false, but at the same time Gangrel 
who are boisterous and well-spoken stalk the night. Many 
Gangrel make their havens in the teeming warrens of the 
big city, and some spend their days slumbering in bucolic 
farmlands. The common wisdom says that the Gangrel 
do not play in politics and despise the maneuvering of 
the Jyhad, but the clan has representatives in positions 
of great power in all the major factions of vampire poli-
tics. And not a single member of the clan has been left 
untouched by the upheavals of the modern nights.
Like most clans, the Gangrel have no official, clan-
wide organization. They have common ground in their 
traditions and their basic natures, which make complex 
organizational schemes superfluous and unnatural. Every 
Gangrel knows the best tactics for dealing with others 
of her kind in the very pit of her soul — respect and 
defer to the strong. A childe too young and too human 
to instinctively grasp this basic concept has it beaten 
into him. Contrary to popular opinion, not all meetings 
between Gangrel entail flying fur. The Gangrel are very 
aware of their position in the power structure, and adept 
at sizing up the physical capabilities of new arrivals.
Not surprisingly, this basic approach to social navi-
gation does not work well when applied to vampires of 
other clans. First, it offends them, and second, it does 
not take into account the levels of deceit and intrigue of 
which they are capable. The organizations invented by the 
other clans are useful — or necessary — in dealing with 
the rest of vampire society. The Camarilla, the Sabbat and 
the anarchs all harbor Gangrel members of convenience. 
Not all Gangrel relationships are forged along the 
path of least resistance. The clan has never been short 
on passionate bravos looking for a fight. These Gangrel 
support an organization or a cause on principles alone 
(although detractors would claim they simply look for 
the roughest fight). The Camarilla, the Sabbat, the 
anarchs and even the enigmatic Inconnu benefit from 
the fervor of Gangrel members.


Clanbook: Gangrel
42
The Gangrel 
Embrace
The Gangrel are a wide-ranging clan, spread across 
the world in defiance of, or blissful ignorance of, mortal 
and Kindred boundaries. The one thing clan members 
most often share is the method of their Embrace. Gangrel 
neonates are frequently abandoned moments after their 
first draught of vitae, left without assistance or comfort 
to cope with the terrible changes Caine’s curse wreaks 
on body and spirit. A childe who survives this harrowing 
episode and takes on her new existence is considered 
worthy. Sires reclaim these childer, who are taught 
the Gangrel ways and treated with the respect due to 
bearers of proud blood. Those who do not survive are 
forgotten. Those driven insane by the experience are 
hunted down by their sires and destroyed. This is how 
the Gangrel have chosen their progeny since the earliest 
nights, and the reasons are clear. Only the strongest, 
the fittest, survive to be called Gangrel. 
As always, exceptions to the practice arise. Childer 
whose skills or resources are considered too precious to risk 
losing, or a sire’s love interest, may be tutored through the 
Embrace and carefully managed at every pitfall. Gangrel 
legends highlight common fates of such “soft” sires and 
their nurtured issue. The son of a chieftain, chosen for 
his remarkable martial prowess, falls prey to a creeping 
insanity and slays his sire and the rest of his brood. The 
delicate youngest daughter of a minor lord, brought into 
the night by a smitten suitor, leads the knights of the 
Inquisition to her sire’s door in her naiveté. The harsh-
ness of the Gangrel’s tradition is intended to break these 
inferior specimens quickly and cleanly, for the good of 
the Kindred themselves. The Gangrel sometimes scorn 
clan members known to have been Embraced without 
the common trial of isolation. Sires who provide such an 
easy out for their childer are sometimes treated similarly. 
Gangrel antitribu indulge in Creation Rites with some 
reluctance; as a way of making up for the complete lack 
of appropriate caution taken during wartime or in mass 
Embraces, they spend lavish amounts of time and care 
on selecting childer who will become True Sabbat.
The Gangrel sire inordinate numbers of Caitiff 
— arguably more so than even the Brujah. This is due 
almost entirely to an unfortunate combination of the 
Gangrel traditions and the thinning of Caine’s blood 
through generations. In ages past, a neonate whose sire 
was destroyed or somehow prevented from claiming his 
childe might still be easily recognized as Gangrel. The 
fortunate were taken under the wing of a mentor; the 
less fortunate were destroyed or cast out to live like 
beasts in the wilderness. In the modern nights, confused 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
43
fledglings may prefer the familiarity of the cities and lose 
themselves in the crush of humanity. The Gangrel sire 
may track as well as a bloodhound, but limits certainly 
exist on what he is willing to endure for a childe who 
makes a fate different from his. A childe of high enough 
generation becomes virtually indistinguishable from the 
Caitiff, and is often forever lost to his clan.
Gangrel who remain in the Camarilla sometimes 
find that their right to create progeny is one of the first 
to be taken from them by princes and jealous rivals. 
Particularly wily Kindred have turned the masses of 
Caitiff to their advantage — by surreptitiously siring 
childer, abandoning them in the traditional manner, 
then taking the poor, disadvantaged “Caitiff” under 
their tutelage. The sire comes out smelling like a rose; 
not only does he have a childe of his blood, he has 
aided the prince by teaching a potential rabble-rouser 
to respect the Masquerade. This is a dangerous game to 
play, but few have been caught at it — yet.
Pride, Loyalty 
and Honor: 
GangrelAllegiances
The Camarilla
The Gangrel have left the Camarilla. That one 
phrase sums up an average vampire’s thoughts on this 
matter. However, the situation is certainly more complex 
than most Kindred understand. 
Xaviar’s apparent self-removal from the ranks of the 
justicars was, and still remains, cause for a great deal of de-
bate among the elders of the Camarilla — after all, they’ve 
never had a clan leave before. No precedent exists for 
dealing with the substantial political fallout, and members 
of other clans rightly worry about the example that this 
incident sets. Elders of Clans Ventrue and Toreador have 
argued that no one vampire, no matter what his or her 
status within his clan or the sect proper, has the power to 
remove his or her entire clan from the Camarilla. Although 
some of these elders profess concern for Gangrel interests, 
a simpler motivation is self-interest. What if, one night, an 
esteemed Ventrue or Toreador should resign herself and 
her clanmates? These elders insist that the Inner Circle 
(whoever they may be) should simply have elected a new 
justicar to represent the Gangrel within the Camarilla. 
The situation is not too far gone to be remedied — a new 
justicar could still be appointed and matters made right. 
These few but determined dissenters have vowed to make 
their voices heard at the next conclave, while worrying 
quietly to themselves at just what Xaviar’s message to the 
Inner Circle must have been to produce such results. Not 
surprisingly, the remaining justicars have not moved swiftly 
to call a conclave. 
Other Camarilla elders point out that only one Gan-
grel among the Founders was enough to bring the clan 
into the Camarilla at its inception. These elders, most 
notably from Clans Tremere and Toreador, agree with 
the Inner Circle’s action (or lack thereof), claiming that 
allowing the Gangrel to retain representation at this point 
would be as ludicrous or distasteful as allowing a lesser, 
politically impotent bloodline to elect a justicar. The 
most dogmatic of these elders have insisted that members 
of Clan Gangrel should be removed from what positions 
of power they hold, as their loyalty is now questionable, 
and evicted entirely from the sect. These protestations 
have, to this point, been made quietly, as no one is ready 
to tell Warlord Karsh that he must step aside. 
The point of debate is mostly moot, as many Gangrel 
have followed Xaviar’s lead in leaving the Camarilla. 
Whether they have done so out of simple respect for 
Xaviar personally (unlikely, as it’s not probable that the 
majority of the Gangrel have even met him), or out of 
some heretofore disguised clan unity is unknown outside 
the clan. The content of Xaviar’s famed single-sentence 
declaration to the Inner Circle is also unknown to mem-
bers of other clans; it is the subject of hushed speculation 
and wild rumor. Those who have bothered to ask the 
Gangrel have received either sullen non-answers, or 
one of the ridiculously manufactured phrases that have 
perversely become a great farce to the Gangrel, and are 
traded among clan members. 
Every Gangrel who hasn’t gone completely wild or 
spent the last decade in torpor can guess the crux of Xaviar’s 
disagreement with the Inner Circle, with varying degrees 
of accuracy depending on how many iterations the story 
has been through. They know that Xaviar has seen, with 
his own eyes, some creature of incredible, earth-shaking 
power, a being greater than the Camarilla’s Inner circle 
will admit exists. Xaviar himself does not, by all accounts, 
know what the creature was. Speculation among the 
clan results in wild tales of waking Antediluvians, or 
savage beasts foretold in the Book of Nod running amok. 
Whatever the creature is, its very existence points to the 
fact that the leaders of the Camarilla have been less than 
honest with those who have put their unlives on the line 
with the organization. The remaining Gangrel archons 
quietly spread the rumor amongst themselves that one 
of the remaining justicars has moved to add Xaviar to 
the Red List for spreading this heresy. If this is true, that 
justicar has yet to receive the additional support needed 
to make such a move, but if he or she does, the effects 
could be explosive.
Even knowing that the Camarilla may have lied to 
them, there are still Gangrel who have chosen to remain 
in the sect. First among them is Karsh, the Warlord, and 


Clanbook: Gangrel
44
any number of Gangrel archons still serve the justicars. In 
addition to these “official” representatives, any number of 
Gangrel in cities and princely fiefs across the globe have 
declared their intention to remain Camarilla members for 
reasons of their own. Many Gangrel have chosen to stay 
because they have contacts within the sect, or because 
they have made promises of service to uphold. These 
reasons are usually respected by their clanmates; loyalty 
and honesty are greatly prized among the Gangrel. Those 
who appear to remain in the Camarilla to protect their 
interests, whether territorial or otherwise, are accorded 
less respect by those who have left. 
In addition to losing the respect of their peers, the 
Gangrel who have interests within Camarilla-dominated 
cities are in danger of losing those interests as well. They 
are no longer trusted in many Camarilla cities because 
other Kindred sometimes say, “The Gangrel have gone 
over to the Sabbat.” Even in areas less prone to hysteria, 
other vampires cannot help but notice the Gangrel’s 
sudden lack of political currency outside the individual. 
As a result of both situations, the Gangrel slowly find 
themselves scapegoated by the Camarilla as their terri-
tories and hunting grounds are parceled out to vampires 
with more clout and more favors to trade. Wise Kindred 
are wary of making enemies of the Camarilla Gangrel; 
doing so is more or less inviting the proverbial wolves to 
bay at your door. Unfortunately for the Gangrel and for 
the Camarilla itself, not all Cainites are wise. 
The Sabbat
The Gangrel have had a presence in the Sabbat since 
its inception. Gangrel sires, past and present, rarely choose 
the fainthearted or tradition-bound for the Embrace. 
These willful Cainites often sided with the anarchs in 
their bloody battles for independence. Their sires were 
little inclined to dissuade their rabble-rousing progeny, 
so long as the bloodthirsty packs weren’t headed in their 
direction. Many of the older Gangrel nurtured centuries-
old grudges against the politically inclined clans for the 
incursions of the Christian Church and temporal gov-
ernment into uncivilized lands. And if idealistic notions 
about freedom and responsibility or ancient resentments 
weren’t enough to stir the blood, Gangrel from elder to 
fledgling were dragged into the fray by the Tremere magi 
of Eastern Europe, who needed Gangrel vampires as raw 
materials for the ensorcellment of their Gargoyle minions. 
Most of the Gangrel antitribu who helped to shape 
the early Sabbat are no longer active. The most notable 
exception to this is Jalan-Aajav, Seraph of the Black 
Hand. The majority of the others have fallen to the 
Gangrel curse and can no longer manage even the broad 
and brutal politics of the Sabbat. They have retreated to 
the wilderness or the oblivion of torpor. They are still 
fervent believers in the cause, and can still be called 
to righteous battle by the Sabbat’s leaders, but the feral 
Gangrel who erupt from the earth are dangerous and 
unpredictable allies. The Sabbat eliminates — or has 
attempted to eliminate — those so far gone to the Beast 
that they are an ideological and tactical liability.
The Sabbat has no shortage of neonate antitribu. 
They serve as scouts and front line troops in the war 
against the Camarilla. They infiltrate cities, equally at 
home pounding the pavement or scaling skyscrapers. 
They roam the countryside “keeping an eye on the 
Lupines,” proselytizing the anarchs, and generally ped-
dling the Sabbat’s most precious resource — freedom.
These young Gangrel come to the Sabbat in several 
ways. Most are Embraced by the City or Country Gan-
grel, and go through the Creation Rites and Acceptance 
Rites as normal. A significant number of Gangrel have 
joined up more or less by accident. These poor suckers 
happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. A 
lone Gangrel who meets up with a Sabbat pack might 
figure her best chance at survival lies in playing along, 
and before she knows it, she’s joined the pack and a 
crusade. Some of these “converts” slip away, given 
the chance, but others stay of their own free will. The 
Sabbat offers much to the Gangrel. The idea of a pack 
comes naturally to some, and even those who prefer 
lone wolf status know that’s usually a short and brutal 
existence (even by Sabbat standards). Also, the Paths 
of Enlightenment (particularly the Path of the Feral 
Heart) are like a life preserver to a dying man for those 
Gangrel who feel their Humanity slipping away under 
the ferocious pressure the Beast exerts.
The sudden influx of Camarilla defectors has placed 
considerable strain on the Gangrel antitribu, however. 
The Sabbat is used to wheedling, cajoling, terrorizing 
and bullying converts, who might spend years trying 
to earn the right to an Acceptance Rite from a Sabbat 
pack. The incoming Gangrel are experienced, tough and 
generally not willing to put up with bullshit. Indeed, 
the Sabbat does not count many of what can be called 
ancillae as its members, yet many of these have flocked 
to the sect after deserting the Camarilla. Established 
Gangrel antitribu react in any number of ways to this 
quandary, from sticking their necks out for clanmates, 
to challenging the threatening newcomers to no-holds-
barred duels. Pack priests and ducti struggle to stamp 
out the powder-keg fuse, under guidance from sect lead-
ers — politically, martially and spiritually, these new 
antitribu are a resource that cannot be wasted. 
Even the Sabbat’s regent knows only as much about 
Xaviar’s reason for leaving the Camarilla as the incom-
ing Gangrel can tell her. These jumbled descriptions 
of Wild Ones, supernatural threats and unknowably 
old vampires have sent the sect’s Noddist scholars into 
a fury, quoting chapter and verse, re-interpreting and 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
45
retranslating old passages and recalculating the night 
of the Antediluvians’ rising. The Sabbat is stepping up 
its planning for the final battle of Gehenna, but does 
so as quietly as possible. Rushed preparations would tip 
the Sabbat’s hand, and every night that the slumber-
ing Ancients and their Camarilla pawns squander may 
garner some advantage for the Sword of Caine.
Anarchs
When most vampires think of anarchs, they think of 
refugees from the set of Easy Rider or The Lost Boys, tooling 
about rural America on incredibly loud choppers, black 
leather jackets worn over natty T-shirts. The Gangrel 
among the anarchs don’t do a whole lot to dispel this 
particular stereotype. North American Gangrel who are 
too young or too gregarious to head for the forests and too 
rebellious to play the political games of the Camarilla and 
the Sabbat sometimes wind up with the nomad bike gangs. 
These gangs are not the sum of anarch culture, but they 
are about the only part of interest to the Gangrel — any 
Gangrel who spends more than a year in the urban hell 
that is the Anarch Free State is either doing someone a 
really big favor or is a City Gangrel on the lam. This is 
true in the modern nights more than ever, as the alien 
Asian vampires who spill out of Chinatowns up and down 
the West Coast have chosen Gangrel with pronounced 
bestial features as a favorite target. These attacks increase 
in frequency as the invaders grow bolder; the Gangrel 
are not sure why those with animalistic appearances are 
targeted, other than the simple fact that they are easy to 
pick out of a crowd.
Despite their numbers and the respect they have ac-
cumulated as a group, Gangrel rarely stay with the anarchs 
permanently. They don’t have the political motivations 
common to their traveling companions. Most anarchs are, 
behind all the tough-guy poses, running from something. 
The Gangrel who travel with them are mostly just run-
ning, or they’re running from checkered pasts and have 
become anarchs by default. When they can no longer 
hide their bestial features, or when all their friends have 
gone home or brightened sunsets, the Gangrel leave their 
bikes at the curb and go to ground. 
Anarchs still make their havens in places all around 
the world (they have not all moved to California, no mat-
ter what aggrieved West Coast princes may think). The 
anarchs of northern Europe have experienced a recent 
groundswell of support from the region’s Gangrel, most 
specifically from an all-female group calling themselves 
the Valkyries. These vampires have the appearance and 
capabilities of great age, yet they mingle with restless 
young vampires and rowdy young humans, offering 
moral and material support with seemingly few strings 
attached. European princes are agog, to say the least, 
but their retributive crackdowns on anarch activity only 
Paths of Enlightenment
Most Gangrel, including the antitribu, follow the 
Path of Humanity. Many of those who survive long 
enough to erode their Humanity choose to follow 
instead the Path of the Feral Heart. Gangrel do on 
occasion choose the road less traveled. (Information 
on the Path of the Feral Heart and the Paths that 
follow can be found in the Guide to the Sabbat. 
Rules for switching from Humanity to a Path can 
be found in Vampire: The Masquerade, page 288.) 
Path of Caine: Gangrel followers of the Path of 
Caine are rare, but those intelligent and tenacious 
scholars who make the cut stand out in a crowd. 
Gangrel have been recruited in increasing numbers, 
as the Noddists have taken a fancy to searching 
after quaint and curious volumes of forgotten lore.
Path of Cathari: City Gangrel are likely to be 
found on this Path, in addition to a fair number 
of their Country cousins. It seems that the Beast 
Within can be convinced to wallow in excess, rather 
than in sticks and mud.
Path of Death and the Soul: This Path holds 
little interest for Gangrel. Its followers are dispas-
sionate in the extreme, and few Gangrel care to so 
completely ignore the pull of their blood.
Path of Evil Revelations: The Sabbat’s Inquisi-
tors keep a close eye on nomadic and solitary Gangrel, 
lest they be swayed to infernalism. In truth, very few 
Gangrel have any interest in enslaving themselves 
for eternity to demonic masters. The rare exceptions 
give Inquisitors nightmares, marauding through Sab-
bat territories and Camarilla princedoms with equal 
disregard for any but their own concerns.
Path of Honorable Accord: Followers of this 
Path are few in number but accorded great respect 
among the Gangrel. Upright and honest ass-kicking 
is always in style.
Path of Lilith: The apocryphal clan connection 
to Lilith makes this Path attractive to those trying to 
get back to their very earliest roots. Unfortunately for 
the recruiting drive, being a heretic means you can’t 
hang up posters. Gangrel may refrain from brawling 
with Bahari, but most don’t pursue the matter further.
Path of Power and the Inner Voice: The 
extremely rare Gangrel who succeed on this Path 
are incredibly formidable opponents. Young Gan-
grel with political aspirations attempt to emulate 
them, but most go down in flames, distracted and 
hamstrung by their own Beasts.


Clanbook: Gangrel
46
lead to greater unrest and greater numbers of vampires 
gathering under the outstretched claws of the Valkyries. 
The Valkyries do not restrict their activities to the 
European theater. Intrigued by reports of the anarch 
“paradise” on the far west shores of Vinland, the Valkyries 
have sent a full four of their number to investigate and 
agitate within the Anarch Free State. These four are 
cutting quite a swath through the West Coast ranks — 
tall, blonde and dressed to kill in the latest European 
anarch fashions. They are finding California much to 
their liking, and are having little trouble gathering a 
group of men and women (and vampires) interested in 
the old Viking ways. The quartet is starting an investi-
gation of the attacks on Gangrel anarchs, and it is only 
a matter of time until East meets North in what is sure 
to be a knockdown, drag-out fight.
Independents
The Camarilla insists on calling these Gangrel 
“Autarkis,” which seems to mean nothing more to them 
than “selfish son-of-a-bitch.” The Sabbat refer to them 
as “fencesitters” on polite nights. To themselves, they 
are simply Gangrel. They have been the heart’s blood 
of the clan, keeping cordial ties with their brothers and 
sisters on both sides of the Camarilla-Sabbat divide, with 
the anarchs, and even with the occasional Inconnu. 
The Camarilla has existed for only five centuries, and 
the Sabbat for mere 350 years; this time period is only 
a long chapter in Gangrel history, and an overly windy 
one at that. The independents hold the rest of the 
book, or perhaps they have dug a deep hole and buried 
the book in it. 
The Gangrel curse is the most common reason so 
many are independents. These vampires have become 
so animalistic that continuing to move among others 
is tantamount to suicide — they cannot help but be 
outmaneuvered and taken advantage of. While these 
Gangrel will undoubtedly have vast stores of knowledge 
and experience, they are also certain to be, to some 
degree, incapable of or unwilling to share it.
A new breed of Gangrel Autarkis has hit the streets 
— a breed that may have never even heard that strange 
word before. These are the orphans of the Camarilla, 
those vampires who paid honor to Xaviar’s word by 
leaving the sect with nothing more than his example 
to go on. These vampires are sorely challenged to be on 
their own; most have only a decade or three of Camarilla 
existence under their belts. No matter how rough and 
underprivileged their undead existences were, many are 
completely unprepared to make it without the safety 
net of the Masquerade and the Camarilla’s resources. 
It’s no wonder that so many of the Gangrel who left 
went straight to the Sabbat, or even the anarchs. Those 
trying to make it alone are courageous, if foolhardy.


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
47
The Gangrel independents do not have an overarch-
ing organization — that’s part of the point of leaving the 
sect, after all. They do organize on a smaller scale, usually 
according to geography, or the charisma and reputation 
of a mentor or sire. The geographical organizations may 
respect mortal political divisions (the state of Michigan), 
or terrain features (the Ohio River valley). Gangrel whose 
territory falls within the agreed-upon bounds sometimes 
gather for seasonal althings, and carefully consider invita-
tions to less formal gatherings (knowing that the inviter 
just might come to personally kick some ass if invitations 
are “declined”). Vampires who are no-shows frequently 
enough can count on a pack of concerned neighbors 
dropping by to make sure there’s nothing shady going 
on — after all, what’s a few hundred miles’ travel among 
Outlanders? Political and physical divisions can and do 
overlap, and Gangrel living in the intersections must 
consider their manners carefully.
The Gangrel gathering around influential leaders 
and sires re-enact ancient ways that often lay fallow 
through the Camarilla years. Gangrel culture still bears 
the indelible thumbprint of the hardy Vikings and the 
fierce vampires who prowled among them as lords through 
might and cunning. Those elders who remember the glori-
ous nights of raiding themselves, and those who listened 
closely to the tales told by sire or grandsire, set themselves 
up as jarls, accepting oaths of loyalty in exchange for 
promises of looting and feasting. The Vikings are not 
the only tribe of violent barbarians represented: Huns, 
Goths, Mongols, Gauls, Aztecs and Sioux are coming out 
of the woodwork, gathering up neonates and ancillae in 
need of guidance (or siring their own), and setting up 
tribes across the Americas and Europe. These “ethnic” 
broods invariably influence the surrounding Gangrel; 
the expedient thing to do when the Vandals move in 
next door is learn to speak German. Camarilla princes 
and Sabbat bishops alike observe these developments 
with some trepidation — after all, that feasting and loot 
has to come from somewhere, and the gleaming cities of 
the 21st century are undoubtedly even more appealing 
to the barbaric hordes than the stone and mud cities of 
centuries past. (For information on the Vikings and the 
vampires who roamed with them, see Wolves of the Sea, 
a supplement for Vampire: The Dark Ages.)
Some of those newly Embraced Autarkis who have 
not been swept up in historical culture factions, and 
who aren’t too busy just trying to stay in one piece, 
have decided to find Xaviar and ask him a few questions. 
Xaviar is not an easy Kindred to find. Young Gangrel 
sometimes mutter that just finding him is part of some 
kind of test. Two prides of Gangrel claim to have suc-
cessfully tracked Xaviar down. The members of these 
groups haven’t known each other for long, and don’t 
seem to get along terribly well in some cases. They are 


Clanbook: Gangrel
48
making a concerted effort to work together, however, 
and they all have the bearing of young heroes charged 
with an important quest. 
Bloodlines
The Gangrel clan has produced more divergent 
bloodlines over the course of history than any other clan. 
At least, these bloodlines are of suspected Gangrel origin. 
The Lhiannan of Western Europe, split in ancient times 
from the main clan, are now gone; the fierce Anda of 
the Central Asian steppe have disappeared as well. The 
reclusive Laibon, perhaps spawned from Gangrel blood 
millennia ago, hide their reduced numbers in the wilds 
of Africa. The Sabbat alone has spawned two Gangrel 
bloodlines in its mere centuries of existence: the City 
Gangrel and the Ahrimanes. The Mariners lurk outside 
the boundaries of sect and even of geography, making their 
way in the last great unexplored frontier — the ocean. 
Ahrimanes
The Ahrimanes are — or were — a secretive blood-
line from the time of their creation in the early nights 
of the Sabbat expansion into the Americas. They are 
not a bloodline in the usual sense of the word, as they 
do not pass their blood from sire to childe. Instead, 
the first Ahrimane, a Gangrel antitribu named Mu-
ricia, enacted a powerful ritual that set herself apart 
from her clan, forever destroying her ability to create 
progeny or even a blood bond. The ritual also imbued 
her with an innate connection to the world of spirit. 
Every Ahrimane since Muricia has been created from a 
female Gangrel, though few know whether this is simply 
preference or something mandated by the ritual itself. 
Cainite anthropologists maintain two theories on this 
subject. The first is that only Muricia herself can enact 
the ritual that creates an Ahrimane, and she refuses to 
perform it for men. The second is that they have in fact 
tried to create male counterparts — and none survived 
the transformation. Most Ahrimanes were chosen 
from Native American tribes of both North and South 
America. African-American women make up the next 
largest segment of the group, with women of Asian or 
European descent bringing up the rear. 
All of these points are moot, now, except to those 
Kindred who consider themselves historians. The Ah-
rimanes disappeared in early 1998 — or at least that’s 
when the Sabbat first noticed them missing, as they were 
never the most social creatures. No one knows why or 
where they have gone. The more paranoid members of 
the Sabbat claim that the Ahrimanes have fallen victim 
to a second Tremere purge of thaumaturges. Whatever 
the truth may be, their havens lay empty, and inquiries 
go unanswered.
And Then There Were None
For players and Storytellers who would like to 
include the Ahrimanes in their chronicles, rumored 
disappearance or no, the following details are provided. 
The Ahrimane bloodline Disciplines are Animalism, 
Auspex and Protean. In addition to these, almost 
every Ahrimane learns the bloodline’s own peculiar 
Thaumaturgy that operates by invoking the spirits of 
the natural world (file the serial numbers off the Lure of 
Flames and Movement of the Mind from Vampire: The 
Masquerade; and Elemental Mastery, the Green Path, 
Neptune’s Might, Spirit Manipulation and Weather 
Control from the Guide to the Camarilla).
The clan weakness is the artificial thinness of their 
blood — they may not sire childer or blood bond vampires 
or mortals. They may still create ghouls, and they may still 
be blood bound by others. Also, since all Ahrimanes were 
once Gangrel, most will bear at least a few animalistic 
traits earned before they renounced their clan.
The Laibon and the Lhiannan
The Laibon and the Lhiannan are detailed 
in the Dark Ages Companion for Vampire: The 
Dark Ages. The attentive reader will note that, as 
originally presented, the Laibon are not described as 
being a Gangrel bloodline. Indeed, those elders who 
consider themselves experts in vampire genealogy 
will likely derive hours of pleasure from debating 
the veracity of the claims presented in the main 
text. Storytellers are welcome, at present, to make 
such blood relations either rock-solid truth or just 
theories
The propensity of the Gangrel blood to deviate into 
bloodlines is a matter of great interest to many vampires. 
The Tremere are always interested in matters of blood 
and power. The Assamites wonder to themselves just 
what they may be drinking in with an elder Gangrel’s 
blood. Any potent Kindred who has considered just 
what might be necessary to set up a tribe of childer and 
grandchilder all bearing his name looks to the Gangrel 
with curiosity mingled with jealousy. Can this elusive 
quality of the blood be pinned down or distilled?
Perhaps the sanguinary culprit can be identified, 
but it has not yet (or whoever has made the discovery 
is not sharing). Mystical and scientific theories abound, 
of course. Some claim that it is the magical legacy of the 
clan’s connection to Lillith, through her daughter En-
noia. Others claim it is simply an expression of the laws 
of nature, natural selection in action with a Lamarckian 
twist, which the Gangrel have somehow activated by 
their closeness to the Beast Within.


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
49
Christian,
We always knew there would come a time when we must part. That time has come and gone 
without your notice, I fear. I have gone, and it is likely that you will never see me again. I prefer it 
this way, I think; I would rather we were torn apart by fate than by jealousy or a lack of trust. I 
can only hope you agree.
You will want to know why I have gone. The simple answer is that we are running out of time. 
The signs come fast and furious, like stars falling from the heavens. They cannot be mistaken or 
denied. We have so much still to learn and do, but soon we must act whether ready or no.
I can tell you these few things. Put aside your Book of Nod, for the moment — it is older than 
ashes, and as bitter. There is still hope; the Lord is bountiful. The ancient wisdom of the Nephites 
can still be found, even though the Lamanites slew every one. We can commit no sin that cannot be 
forgiven. Hands black with ancient blood can still be washed clean.
You have always wanted to know what we are. We are the candle on the altar, we are the mani 
chho-khor on the windy mountaintop. Woman is always the agent of man’s downfall — can she not 
bring him salvation as well?
Use your time wisely, my love. If we fail, the battle will fall to your shoulders, for you are the 
last hope. If we meet again, it will be in sunlight.
Juliana 


Clanbook: Gangrel
50
Anda
These fierce warriors rode with the barbarians 
among the nomads of the Central Asian steppe and 
followed the hordes led by the Mongol Khans. The 
Anda (“blood brother” in Mongolian) were supremely 
adapted to survival on the high plains, both in life and 
unlife. They had no fear of travel, and put more land 
beneath their mounts’ feet than many vampires have 
seen in centuries of existence. They practiced the Gan-
grel Disciplines of Fortitude and Protean, and their own 
unique variation of Animalism specifically suited to the 
needs of the nomad. Unfortunately for the Anda, the 
Asian nights do not belong to the Kindred alone. The 
mysterious vampires of China rose up collectively against 
the Anda at the close of the Yuan Dynasty, exacting 
retribution for every city sacked and village burned by 
exterminating the bloodline to a man. Any Anda left 
in the world have been in torpor for seven centuries or 
more and show no signs of returning. Any intelligent 
Cainite knows that the Anda truly are no more. 
City Gangrel
The descendants of the first Sabbat Gangrel packs 
of the New World have made a place for themselves 
apart from their “Country” brothers. Almost as many 
City Gangrel claim membership in the Sabbat as do 
representatives of the main clan. The bloodline has 
proliferated with astonishing speed, undoubtedly aided 
by the high turnover rate of Sabbat vampires — most 
City Gangrel are 10th generation or higher. Some Sabbat 
observers have suggested that the gory ritual enacted by 
the original seven packs, the founders of the bloodline, 
had significance beyond the social — that it, in fact, 
mystically tied the participants together and imbued 
each one with the blood of a new line. None of the 
members of the seven packs has given a blood sample 
for testing, however, nor are those still surviving willing 
to disclose what happened on that night.
The City Gangrel are urban killers without peer in 
the cities they choose to inhabit, using a combination of 
city-wide knowledge, martial prowess and their unique 
set of Disciplines to strike hard, fast and without warning. 
They are equally at home in the bright lights and glitz of 
happening downtowns and poorly lit, trash-strewn slums. 
City Gangrel are almost always members of the Sab-
bat. Some few, the casualties of typical Gangrel Embrace 
habits, are independents or Autarkis. City Gangrel who 
join the Camarilla put themselves on a short list for the 
Wild Hunt; apathetic anarchs and independents can be 
ignored, but going over to the enemy in the middle of a 
holy war can’t. Most City Gangrel are Embraced into the 
Sabbat, undergo their Creation and Acceptance Rites, 
and go on to lead short, productive and brutal unlives.
City Gangrel inherit the Celerity, Obfuscate and 
Protean Disciplines. The bloodline suffers the same 
clan weakness as the rest of the Gangrel. They tend to 
favor Physical Attributes, but they also produce urban 
tacticians to direct Sabbat packs when the Great Jy-
had hits the city streets. Talents and Skills are equally 
valued. Mentor, Contacts and Allies are the preferred 
Backgrounds for keeping vital information flowing. City 
Gangrel who leave behind their Humanity usually adopt 
the Path of the Feral Heart, but not a few seek spiritual 
enlightenment along the Path of Lilith, or temporal 
power on the Path of Power and the Inner Voice.
Obfuscate for the Incredibly Ugly
Gangrel who have lost their human looks may 
wish to use the Obfuscate power Mask of a Thousand 
Faces to circumvent that particular social handicap. 
This is possible, but not easy. The “face” created 
by Mask of a Thousand Faces defaults to an Ap-
pearance rating of 2. To use Mask of a Thousand 
Faces to improve a character’s Appearance beyond 
2 requires spending two points of blood for each 
dot’s worth of improvement. Also, if the Gangrel 
character has specific, large body features to hide 
(a hunchback, a tail, etc.), the player must also 
achieve enough successes to pull the transformation 
off. Three successes will usually be required, but the 
Storyteller may lower that to two for inventive uses 
of makeup or costuming.
Laibon
The Laibon connection to the Gangrel, if it exists 
at all, must be buried under centuries of the sands of 
time. The Laibon have dwelt, often openly, among the 
peoples of Africa since the Kindred first took note of 
their movements. Noddist scholars theorize that the 
Gangrel Antediluvian was among those who disobeyed 
Caine by illicitly siring childer far from Enoch, where 
she imagined her trespass would go unnoticed. The 
Laibon are a possible result. Some also speculate about 
similarly diverse and mysterious Gangrel in the deepest 
recesses of South America.
The evidence that the Laibon may be wayward 
Gangrel is tantalizing. They share the Animalism and 
Fortitude Disciplines in common. The Abombwe Dis-
cipline used by the Laibon seems to involve some sort 
of pact with the Beast Within; by tithing vitae to that 
ravenous part of the vampire psyche, the Laibon have 
escaped the slow crumbling of self and personality that 
plagues the Gangrel.
The Laibon are now fewer in number than ever. 
Those few who have contact with vampire society closely 
regulate their numbers to less than a dozen. Others may 
lurk in places where non-natives fear to tread. 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
51
Lhiannan
The proud and stubborn vampires of the Lhiannan 
bloodline were eradicated by the coming of Christian-
ity — as much for their pagan ways as for the fact that 
they were bloodsucking monsters. The Inquisition’s 
traveling judge and jury burned out the Lhiannan, and 
often their mortal devotees with them, wherever they 
were found. Even those Lhiannan with the sense to go 
into hiding were helpfully pointed out by the Ventrue, 
Toreador and Lasombra, who had an investment in the 
new Church and needed a suitably gory distraction from 
their own depredations.
Although a true member of the bloodline has not 
been seen since the 14th century, the past 50 years have 
seen a relatively tame revival of the Lhiannan’s blood-
spattered legends (but not practices) by Gangrel in Ireland, 
Scotland and Wales. Astute observers of the mortal world 
point to the Irish Revolt in 1916. Undoubtedly, fervent 
and courageous patriots were among those Embraced by 
the Gangrel; given time they would learn of the heritage 
“lost” to them and attempt to recreate those golden pagan 
times with their own covens. These neo-Lhiannan do 
not have access to the mystic powers of the ancients, but 
they are eager to learn. Gangrel of an age to know such 
secrets watch the upstarts closely, in case they would take 
by force what has not been offered freely.
Mariners
The uptight sorcerers of Clan Tremere refer to the 
Gangrel who have taken to the sea as “Gangrel aquarii.” 
These Gangrel don’t give a damn what the Tremere call 
them, however, and refer to themselves as Mariners 
on the odd occasion that they speak of themselves as 
a group. The Mariners take the forms of sea creatures 
and eschew both mortal and Kindred society for the 
lightless deeps of the ocean.
The Mariners are problematic as a bloodline. They 
practice the same Disciplines as Clan Gangrel as a whole. 
Their common variations on the Protean Discipline 
(sonar and razor-sharp webbing) may be picked up by 
any Gangrel with the inclination to learn. The blood of 
Are Fish That Ugly?
The Mariners have historically been shunned 
as monstrosities even by their own clan for the 
sheer bizarreness of their animal flaws. In the Final 
Nights, however, insectoid and ichthyoid features 
have become increasingly common among Clan 
Gangrel as a whole. At the Storyteller’s discretion, 
this explosion of shared ugliness may serve to bring 
the Mariner’s weakness back into line with the main 
clan’s; lose one Social Attribute point for every five 
animal features gained.


Clanbook: Gangrel
52
the Mariner sire does not necessarily ensure the childe 
an aquatic form, although only rarely does a carefully 
chosen Mariner childe fail this critical shapechanging 
test. The only difference that sets the Mariners apart as a 
potential bloodline is their rapid acquisition of extreme 
animal features — scales, tentacles, squid beaks, fins and 
even stranger appendages from creatures who never see 
the light of day have been spotted on relatively young 
Mariners. (Mariners suffer a more potent version of the 
Gangrel curse, losing a Social Attribute for every three 
animal flaws acquired instead of every five.)
The Mariners have, as a group, been extended 
membership in both the Camarilla and the Sabbat in 
times past. They have, as individuals, shunned such 
offers and continue to do so. Their reaction to the 
news that the Gangrel have left the Camarilla has been 
underwhelming — on average a piscine shrug of the 
shoulders, at best a watery “We could have told you 
so.” The Mariners are covered in more detail in World 
of Darkness: Blood-Dimmed Tides.
Gangrel Around 
the World
The Earth is a vast place, and the Gangrel can be 
found all over it in the strangest nooks and crannies. 
Therefore, the following material is by necessity an 
abridged account of Gangrel activities and interests 
across the globe. For more details, and information on 
what everyone else is up to, see A World of Darkness 
Second Edition.
Antarctica
There are no known Gangrel in Antarctica. Few 
Gangrel doubt that there must be something fiendish 
there, buried deep in earth that never thaws or frozen 
solid in ice that never melts. Antarctica is the logical 
retreat for those who never want to see civilization again. 
Africa
The continent of Africa encloses boundless deserts, 
towering rainforests and broad savannahs. The hand of 
man has tainted many of these natural wonders, but some 
impressive pristine areas remain. Those areas usually belong 
to the Lupines and other fierce and strange shapechanging 
creatures. The Gangrel make their way well enough in the 
great spaces that remain. The truly powerful Kindred who 
roam the continent go where and when they please; it is 
rumored that Ennoia may be among them. In the north, 
Gangrel explorers tread the dunes of Egypt in growing 
numbers in defiance of the country’s overwhelming Lupine 
presence. Like many outsiders before them, they come to 
sift through the sands in search of the mysterious past.
Gangrel of Note: A group calling itself the Nyayo 
maintains a surprising amount of influence in Kenyan 
politics. They use this influence to keep their home country 
as free as possible from European and American influences, 
with the goal of keeping out the Camarilla and the Sabbat. 
A pride of Communist sympathizers in the Sudan known 
as the Red Menace (a mocking appellation they took on 
as a badge of honor) refuses to take down the hammer 
and sickle. They provide financial and technical backing 
to Communist revolutionaries across Africa.
Asia
The past decade has been tumultuous for the Gangrel 
of Asia. Western Kindred have not freely roamed the 
vast lands of China since the nights of the great Khans. 
For centuries they wandered through Mongolia and 
further north, until a twisted magic settled over Russia, 
trapping those inside and keeping others out. Foreigners 
may chuckle at tales of Baba Yaga and her chicken hut, 
but inside the Shadow Curtain her name was whispered 
with reverence or not spoken at all. Recently, the Cur-
tain fell; those Gangrel who valued their freedom made 
themselves scarce before such a phenomenon could oc-
cur again, traveling west, south or even north over the 
pole to escape the hag’s influence. The Gangrel of India 
are locked in a losing battle with the tide of humanity 
that spills out of the cities and across the countryside. 
As the wilds disappear, they are forced into increased 
conflict with the Ravnos, feeding the flames of enmity 
on both sides, and with the Cathayans. The Gangrel do 
not have a presence in Japan or Indonesia, though the 
occasional traveler may have tales to share of her visits.
Gangrel of Note: A group of three Gangrel run 
a smuggling operation across the northern border of 
China into Russia, moving large quantities of Chinese-
manufactured goods and risking the wrath of Beijing’s 
Cathayans. The motivations of these Kindred, who have 
taken great pains to remain nameless and faceless, are 
completely unknown — but one must imagine they don’t 
involve money. An unusual coalition of Gangrel in the 
Barents Sea claims to have recovered a nuclear warhead 
from a Soviet submarine scuttled off the island of Novaya 
Zemlya. Whether they are making this announcement 
in hopes of securing bids for the item, or starting their 
political careers with a bang, or if they actually have 
the device in their possession are all unknown.
Australia
Australia and New Zealand are the closest thing on 
Earth to a Gangrel paradise. The wilderness is mostly 
unsettled, the people are tough and resourceful — and 
those damned Lupines are nowhere to be seen. The cities 
house the usual squabbling Kindred and invading Sab-
bat, but no other clans want what the bush has to offer. 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
53
Many Gangrel who come to visit never leave; more than 
one native insurgent has suggested setting up one or the 
other island as a Gangrel Free State. In New Zealand, 
the Sabbat succeeded in establishing a presence, drawing 
members from the young Polynesian minorities who feel 
cheated by the white government.
Gangrel of Note: A venerable Maori Gangrel, Nyrie 
Waaka, has hit the warpath against the Sabbat incursion 
in New Zealand. She has no real quarrel with Sabbat 
ideology, but the young vampires, many of them City 
Gangrel, have appropriated the ritual moko face tattoos 
into their pack style — distinctions they have not earned. 
The ashes of the newest Sabbat converts have been found 
scattered in the patterns they improperly appropriated.
Europe
Europe is not a particularly quiet place to be Gan-
grel. More wilderness disappears every year despite the 
best (and disjointed) efforts of humans, Lupines and the 
occasional vampire. Gangrel elders here may be over a 
millennium old; if crowding occurs, the neonates and 
ancillae find themselves pushed into the cities, where 
they are often scorned by polite Kindred society, or off 
the continent entirely.
Gangrel of Note: Brunhilde, the leader of the Scan-
dinavian Valkyries, is detailed in the final chapter. She 
and her recently awakened host of female warriors preside 
over a revival of Viking ways and raise hell among Europe’s 
anarchs. Rufus of Andorra, who has watched the Sabbat’s 
depredations in Spain from atop his mountain peaks for 
centuries, has begun stockpiling weapons and Embracing 
broods in secure havens. Sources of somewhat dubious 
repute say that Rufus has shattered the Masquerade by 
openly approaching Andorra’s government (such as it is). 
Archons have been dispatched to investigate.  
Middle East
The Gangrel hold a respected place in Kindred 
society in the Middle East. Perhaps vampires who 
struggle for survival in the harsh, arid climate have a 
greater understanding of the clan’s steadfast strength. 
The mortal population of the area, caught between 
modernization and religious fervor, has made existence 
uncomfortable for vampires of any clan. The numbers 
of people with True Faith have risen, and vampires fear 
the fiery bombs of extremists as keenly as any human. 
Still, in the rural and wilderness areas favored by the 
Gangrel, life and death go on as they have for years. 
Gangrel of Note: Respected Islamic scholar Ebi 
Raboud has spent years wandering warily among havens 
in Islamabad, Kabul and Tehran, avoiding Assamite 
assassins and the fetid pisacha while composing and 
disseminating his commentaries on Islamic law as it 


Clanbook: Gangrel
54
applies to Kindred. He now encounters a new class of 
Assamite — faithful vampires fleeing the civil war on 
Alamut seek him out for advice and help. He cannot 
turn these refugees away, but he fears that he may not 
see the assassin among the supplicants until it is too late.
North America
The Gangrel of North America have taken the 
brunt of the abuse in the wake of the clan’s separation 
from the Camarilla. All along the East Coast, where 
tensions between the Sabbat and the Camarilla are taut, 
Gangrel are treated with suspicion at best, or destroyed 
on sight at worst. The besieged princes figure that those 
Gangrel who are not outright traitors are deserters; loyal 
Camarilla Gangrel stay close to their havens and bolt-
holes to avoid identification mishaps. Further west, the 
tension ebbs and the Gangrel are subject only to the 
peculiarities of local leaders. Along the West Coast, 
the Gangrel also have the Cathayans to worry about.
Gangrel of Note: The Free Minutemen of Pocatello 
are a small group of independent Gangrel chosen from 
the ranks of local militias and survivalist groups. These 
revolutionaries are angry (and not just about the pallets of 
canned food going to waste in their bunkers) — they’ve 
gotten the idea that the vampires are controlled by the 
United Nations as part of a nefarious plot to overthrow 
the US. They intend to turn the enemy’s tools against 
him. Quebec’s Cree Indians have a protector in a bestial 
creature known only as Muskuuchii — the name of the 
mountain it lives on. Other Gangrel report that this 
elder has approached them, most often in the form of a 
bear, to ask for their help in preventing the secession of 
Quebec from Canada, a development which might see 
the Cree’s aboriginal lands taken from them. The ursine 
creature is of the opinion that there is an individual or 
organization with great influence thwarting its efforts. 
On the other hand, its efforts have most likely been 
naïve and less than subtle. 
South America
The hot, wet geography of South America is a exten-
sive haven for the Gangrel. It also shelters shapechanging 
cats and terrible lizard-monsters, but most local Gangrel 
accept the test of their survival skills as a fair exchange. 
Even though the continent seems to encourage this 
bravo nature in its nocturnal residents, only the truly 
foolish head into the Amazon basin, where the Lupines 
battle some horrendous technological manifestation. 
Gangrel Embraced from the indigenous tribes of the 
area claim that there is a strange bloodline of native 
vampires in the jungles who share many Gangrel’s af-
finity with the bat — creatures who wreak devastation 
when awakened without proper propitiations and rituals. 
Those inclined to believe such tales keep an eye on the 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
55
rainforest — assault weapons and chainsaws are usually 
not appropriate ritual gear.
Gangrel of Note: Xotli the Toad, a hideous creature 
with bulging eyes, oozing skin and a long sticky tongue, 
has made lone guerilla strikes against well-defended tar-
gets a specialty in his native Guatemala. He has grown 
greedy, the profits accumulated from years of working for 
both sides of a Sabbat/Setite conflict whetting his taste 
for more. He’d also like somewhere a little nicer to spend 
it all, and is considering taking his show on the road. 
The Beast 
Rampant: The 
Gangrel Flaw
The Gangrel clan’s greatest strength is also its great-
est weakness. The Gangrel are tied to the Beast Within 
in ways that no other vampire could understand; their 
greatest gifts come from that primal connection, but with 
every slip of control into frenzy, the Beast leaves its mark. 
The mark is usually a visible feature, a physical change 
to the Gangrel’s body. More rarely the mark is on the 
vampire’s soul, affecting his behavior or his very identity.
Other clans speak derogatorily of the Gangrel’s ani-
malistic features as the results of “losing control.” This is 
not strictly true: Any frenzy, whether entered willingly or 
fiercely resisted, inflicts the same penalty upon the Outland-
ers. Gangrel entering Rötschreck may not suffer this curse; 
so long as the vampire obeys the “flight” tenet of the Red 
Fear, she does not acquire an animal feature. A cornered 
Gangrel who resorts to the “fight” half of the equation 
will regain her senses to find another feral feature, as even 
necessary violence brings the Beast bubbling to the fore.
The rules governing frenzy — what causes it, its ef-
fects and when it ends — are purposely left open for the 
Storyteller’s interpretation (see Vampire: The Masquer-
ade, p. 228). The Storyteller should use his discretion in 
situations where the line between fight and flight is thin; 
a glancing blow from a Gangrel in the grip of Rötschreck 
may hurt its target, but not register to the Gangrel’s Beast 
as anything more than simply clearing the path.
Most of the features caused by the Beast are visible 
and clearly animal or even insectoid in origin: growing 
fur, feathers or scales; changes to the structure of facial 
features, hands or feet; sprouting additional appendages 
like a tail or antennae; or developing truly odd features 
like nictating membranes, a marsupial pouch or a work-
ing musk gland. Dramatic changes are unlikely to occur 
all at once, although some particularly unlucky or rabid 
Gangrel may find themselves with some of the drastic 
modifications listed below. It is far more likely that each 
Bruce,
I am intrigued by your theory con-
cerning the antisocial tendencies 
expressed by so many Gangrel; i.e. that 
the Gangrel remove themselves from the 
company of other Kindred in order to 
avoid frenzy. The idea has some merit; 
it is certainly true that entering the 
state of heightened aggression commonly 
termed “frenzy” invariably has conse-
quences for members of our clan that 
are not experienced by other clans. I 
would personally hesitate to credit the 
majority of frenzies to Kindred influ-
ence. You should be able to test your 
theory, however, simply by observing 
Cainites in their natural habitat, so to 
speak. If you have Camarilla contacts, 
it may be possible to arrange a self-
reporting survey on frenzy frequency 
and probable cause from a sizable num-
ber of participants. Such results will 
not be particularly reliable, but they 
may point you toward certain areas of 
consideration. And, if you will excuse 
my saying so, the soft sciences have 
never required rigorous mathematics.
My own personal inclinations on 
this matter, which I admit to be of a 
completely non-scientific and untest-
able nature, draw heavily on Jungian 
inspiration. Bear with me, good col-
league: Even Einstein prayed to a god. 
It is my belief that the Gangrel founder 
was not only a woman, but also the 
possessor of such qualities as may be 
termed archetypally feminine. Along with 
her blood, we have received a portion 
of her spirit, an anima to complement 
the animus. We are, as a result, more 
complete beings, less desiring or ne-
cessitous of others to complete our 
selves. I will admit that I have yet to 
summon the strength of will to mention 
this pet theory of mine to the female 
members of our clan, but I will point 
out to you the Ahrimanes as a possible 
example of anima unchecked.
In any case, I look forward to your 
results. If you wish me to comment on 
a proposed methodology for your study, 
I would be more than happy to do so.
Yours,
Allan T. Woodstock


Clanbook: Gangrel
56
subsequent frenzy adds incrementally to the effect, so 
that a full coat of fur may sprout on the vampire’s chest, 
then later appear on her back, legs, hands and face.
The marks left by the Beast are not always so easily 
seen. Some can be smelled or heard, like a pungent musk 
or shrill, cawing voice. In some cases, the Gangrel is left 
with animalistic impulses and behaviors as result of frenzy. 
These are psychological aberrations, similar to derange-
ments, but far less crippling individually. The Gangrel 
may unwillingly find himself circling a chair three times 
before sitting down, marking his territory (with blood), or 
toying with his prey. These behaviors might seem comic, 
but in situations where proper etiquette, grace, stealth 
or speed are important, there’s nothing to laugh at. The 
afflicted Gangrel may spend a Willpower point to avoid 
acting out his animal habits for a scene.
The variation of animal features within the clan is 
astonishing. No two Gangrel have ever developed the 
exact same set of features, although basic trends may 
be passed from sire to childe. Gangrel past the age of 
fledgling rarely exhibit features from only one animal; 
the Beast’s myriad expressions in the animal kingdom 
provide a broad palette.
The animal feature that results from a frenzy should 
always be approved by the Storyteller, especially in cases 
of drastic modification or animal behavior. Ideally, the 
Gangrel character’s inevitable descent into the clutches 
of the Beast should be a collaboration between the player 
and the Storyteller, but in some instances the Storyteller 
should feel justified in inflicting a monstrous or jarring fea-
ture on a character. The Gangrel do not evolve into cuddly 
humanoid pets, they devolve into chimerical monsters; the 
Storyteller may occasionally need to reinforce this point. 
Every five animal features the Gangrel character ac-
cumulates, whether physical or mental, reduces one of her 
Social Attributes by one point. Appearance is usually the 
first Attribute to be affected, since the vast majority of fea-
tures the character will acquire are physical. Charisma and 
Manipulation can be affected by purely physical changes, 
as well. The character’s animal features might be distract-
ing or embarrassing, reducing her social effectiveness, or 
they may simply do so much damage to her self-image as 
to severely impact how she deals with others. Acquiring a 
mental animal feature makes it much more likely that the 
Gangrel’s Charisma or Manipulation Traits will be affected.
It is possible for Gangrel to buy back Social At-
tribute points lost to the cumulative effects of frenzy. 
This should be roleplayed in detail and approved by 
the Storyteller — perhaps the character finally takes 
to wearing concealing clothes and combing his hair. 
Perhaps he has taken charm or voice lessons. Whatever 
the reason, regaining lost Social Attributes is never 
easy. The player should keep track of the values of all 
three Social Attributes prior to any frenzy-based losses. 
That prior value determines the experience point cost 
to increase a Social Attribute. Also, the limits imposed 
on Attributes by the vampire’s generation apply to the 
higher, initial value. For example, Angry Sam arises 
from his Embrace with an Appearance 3. Ten frenzies 
later (how do you think he earned his name?), Sam’s 
Appearance has dropped to 1. If Sam’s player wishes to 
buy Sam’s Appearance back to 2, the experience point 
cost will be calculated as if he were buying the Attribute 
from 3 to 4 — 20 experience points. Sam’s Appearance 
is now effectively 4 for figuring the experience point 
cost to buy another Appearance point; if Sam is eighth 
generation or higher, he can only buy one more Ap-
pearance point ever, no matter how bestial he becomes. 
Mixed Blessings
The animal features below represent drastic and 
sudden changes to the vampire’s physical form. They 
immediately and permanently reduce one of the vam-
pire’s Social Attributes by one. Usually they reduce the 
Appearance Attribute, but if the character is already 
so ugly that adding a scaly tail or a set of ultra-wide 
ears really won’t make matters worse, or the shock of 
becoming poisonous is more of a self-image hit than an 
image problem, other Social Attributes may be affected 
instead. These modifications are serious enough that 
they offer some fringe benefits, though rarely enough 
to make up for their hideousness.
These features can pose a serious problem: The 
vampire has become a walking breach of the Masquer-
ade. Precautions can be taken — these features can all 
be hidden with varying degrees of success — but many 
princes do not wish to take chances. The same qualities 
make these deformed Gangrel prized shock troops in 
the Sabbat’s full-bore attacks on Camarilla-held cities.
Any of these animal features, if not carefully hidden 
(roll Dexterity + Subterfuge, difficulty set by the Sto-
ryteller according to the degree of the aberration), will 
cause a +2 difficulty to all Social rolls. Other Gangrel 
and Nosferatu may not impose these social penalties, 
at the Storyteller’s discretion.
It is recommended that these features occur only in 
extreme circumstances (the result of a botched roll, or 
a particularly protracted and bloody frenzy), and that a 
Gangrel only ever acquires one such feature. 
Frog Eyes: The Gangrel’s eyes migrate painfully to 
the sides of his head, in the process swelling to roughly 
the size of saucers. The eyes usually have the slit pupils 
of an amphibian or reptile, but certain rare specimens 
have manifested insectlike faceted eyes. Sunglasses 
simply aren’t going to cut it anymore, but the vampire 
may add two dice to all sight-based Perception rolls 
due to his new 270 o field of vision. He becomes very 
difficult to sneak up on, obviously, and suffers one less 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
57
than the standard multiple-opponent difficulty penalties 
in close combat (no penalty for two attackers, +1 for 
three, etc. to the normal maximum of +4).
Exoskeleton: This particularly vile feature wracks 
the vampire with pain as her skeleton excretes itself as 
a chitinous shell. The vampire gains greater use of her 
natural strength in the form of an additional two dice 
to Strength-related Athletics rolls, and a reduced dif-
ficulty of 8 instead of 9 on Willpower rolls to perform 
feats of Strength. The hard shell also provides one ad-
ditional soak die against bashing and lethal damage. This 
physical power comes at a terrifying cost, however, one 
which many Gangrel do not discover until it is too late. 
Because the vampire’s skeleton is all but gone, her rib 
cage and sternum provide no protection for her heart. 
An opponent with a stake need only inflict one health 
level of damage (after soak) with a hit difficulty of 9 to 
effectively stake the vampire instead of the usual three.
Hide/Carapace: This effect manifests in a variety 
of ways: dense, coarse fur; tough, elephantlike hide; or 
a calcified covering. The covering provides a natural 
armor, adding two to the vampire’s soak dice for even 
aggravated damage, excluding fire and sunlight. In 
addition to the difficulty of hiding this full-body muta-
tion, the thickness of the armor invariably reduces the 
vampire’s Dexterity by one. 
Maw: Discreet fangs give way to a mouthful of 
teeth as the vampire’s jaw stretches and lengthens to 
accommodate the new dentition. Whether needle-sharp 
and ratlike or serrated like a shark’s, these teeth do not 
retract. A vampire with these teeth cannot simply hide 
them by keeping her mouth closed — her exaggerated 
jawline shows the size of her mouth, and the teeth often 
jut out past the lips. The vampire’s bite does Strength +2 
aggravated damage in combat, and can drain two extra 
blood points per turn during feeding. The wounds caused 
by these teeth cannot be closed in the normal manner.
Sonar: The visible component of this mutation is a 
truly huge pair of batlike ears, each easily the size of the 
vampire’s palm if it were stuck on the side of his head. 
The Gangrel’s voice box is also modified to produce high-
frequency sounds (those with the Medicine Knowledge 
may make a Perception + Medicine [difficulty 8] roll 
to notice). Using this sonar organ to navigate through 
darkness, smoke or fog reduces the vampire’s difficulty 
penalty by one in such situations. The ears cannot be 
hidden while in use; not only does any covering interfere 
with the sonar reception, but the ears must be able to 
move independently to properly echolocate.
Spinnerets: Somewhere noticeable on the abdomen, 
the vampire develops silk glands and the spinnerets to 
use them. The silk glands transform the vampire’s blood 
to webbing; one blood point and one round of concen-
tration will generate 10 square feet of spider web, or 100 
feet of a single, strong strand. The vampire must decide 
ahead of time whether the web will be sticky or not, but 
the vampire is never stuck in her own web, as it is made 
from her own blood. The webbing is incredibly strong, 
requiring a Strength 5 to break, or a Strength 4 to cut 
with claws or a knife. The spinnerets are conspicuous 
protuberances in any sort of normal clothing except a 
heavy coat or robe (Perception + Alertness, difficulty 5 to 
notice) — hunting Casanova-style is nearly impossible. 
It is certainly worth noting that the Gangrel must not be 
wearing pants to make use of her spinnerets. In addition, 
the webbing is very sensitive to light, spun as it is from 
vampire blood. Sunlight disintegrates it immediately; even 
the dim glow of a streetlight or the beam of a flashlight 
will destroy the web within 10 turns.
Tail: The Gangrel’s spine lengthens dramatically 
past the coccyx, fleshing out into a muscular, heavy tail. 
The tail is usually long enough to drag on the ground and 
bulky enough that it does — it must be bound or tied to 
keep it off the ground, and even then it is relatively easy 
to notice (difficulty 4 on a Perception + Alertness roll). 
The tail does serve well as a blunt weapon; so long as the 
vampire fights with natural weapons in close combat, he 
may make a free normal attack or sweep maneuver on 
flanking and rear opponents with no multiple-opponent 
penalty (other attacks suffer the usual penalties). The 
tail inflicts Strength bashing damage. 
Talons: These claws are equivalent to the Feral 
Claws provided by the Protean Discipline — with the 
important drawback that they cannot be retracted, and 
are always present on both hands and feet. Aside from 
the social difficulties that come from never being able 
to disarm, the vampire will find it difficult to manipu-
late small objects like car keys or computer keyboards. 
Gangrel with Talons suffer a +1 difficulty penalty for 
any task involving fine manipulation, especially if such 
manipulation has to be done under stress.
Venom: The Gangrel’s fangs hollow, and poison 
reservoirs form in her head or neck. The venom is only 
mildly poisonous, in comparison to some in the animal 
kingdom. The victim of a successful, damaging bite must 
make a Stamina roll (difficulty 7, 9 for normal humans 
and animals) or lose one point from a Physical Attribute. 
The Gangrel should choose which Physical Attribute 
her venom affects when this feature is acquired, and it 
may not be changed. If the Attribute reaches zero, the 
victim falls unconscious or into torpor. Attributes lost 
in this fashion return as though they were aggravated 
damage. The drawbacks to this ability are twofold. First, 
the vampire’s hollowed fangs are more susceptible to 
breaking. Any botch on a bite attack roll breaks one or 
both fangs, which must be regrown on the same schedule 
as aggravated damage. Second, nature does not provide 
poison without a visible warning — the vampire is vis-


Clanbook: Gangrel
58
ibly venomous, whether showing the vibrant colors of a 
poisonous tree frog, or the pitted face of a viper.
Wings: The bat or bird wings that sprout from the 
Gangrel’s back are not strictly useable; they are stunted, 
much too small to bear the vampire’s weight in flight. 
They are, however, easily big enough to be noticeable — 
bound to the vampire’s back, they simply give him the 
appearance of being a hunchback instead of a winged 
freak. The wings can provide some stability in precari-
ous situations or help break a bad fall, if not bound or 
wrapped. In these situations, add two dice to Athletics 
rolls involving balance, and assess one die of bashing 
damage for each 15 feet of a fall instead of each 10 feet.
MET Systems for Animal Traits
Frog Eyes: These add two Traits to all sight-based 
perception tests, and subtract one from the standard 
multiple-opponents Trait penalties.
Exoskeleton: The Gangrel gains two Physical Traits 
for strength-related tests and one additional level of armor 
against bashing and lethal damage. However, anyone 
attempting to stake the Gangrel needs to win or tie just 
one Simple Test after winning a Physical Challenge.
Hide/Carapace: The vampire gains two levels of 
armor against bashing and lethal damage, and one against 
aggravated damage, but suffers a one-Trait penalty on 
all tests involving dexterity.
Maw: The vampire’s bite does two levels of ag-
gravated damage and can drain three Blood Traits per 
turn during feeding.
Sonar: The vampire has a two-Trait bonus on tests 
while navigating in darkness, fog, smoke and the like. 
People with the Medicine Ability may make a Mental 
Challenge to notice the voice alterations.
Spinnerets: Spend one Blood Trait to generate a 
square yard of webbing or 10 feet of a single, tough strand. 
Anyone attempting to break it must win a Static Physical 
Challenge against a total equal to the Gangrel’s Physical 
Traits (one-Trait bonus if the would-be breaker has claws, 
a knife or some other sharp instrument). Observers may 
make a Mental Challenge to notice the spinnerets, and 
the vampire takes a two-Trait penalty for this test.
Tail: Observers may make a Mental Challenge to 
notice the tail (if concealed), and the vampire takes a 
three-Trait penalty for this test. The tail inflicts two 
levels of bashing damage.
Talons: These work like Wolf Claws on both hands 
and feet, except that they can’t be withdrawn. The 
vampire suffers a one-Trait penalty on tests involving 
fine manipulation.
Venom: When the vampire successfully bites a target, 
the target must make a Static Physical Test against eight 
Traits. If the target loses this test, subtract one Physical Trait; 
this damage heals like aggravated damage. A victim who 
reaches two Physical Traits falls unconscious. Whenever 
the vampire fails a bite attack, make two Simple Tests. If 
the vampire fails both, one or both fangs break and must 
regrow as if they’d been lost to aggravated damage. 
Wings: These add two bonus Traits on tests involv-
ing balance, and the vampire suffers one level of bashing 
damage for every 15 feet she falls, rather than every 10.
The Others
Kindred
Assamite
The Gangrel and the Assamites have clashed on 
the battlefields of Europe and Asia for centuries. They 
have also fought side-by-side, perhaps even during the 
same battles — both clans are known for mercenary 
tendencies. Both clans have learned to respect each 
other for their martial prowess and brutal honesty. Lately, 
however, the Gangrel worry about what the Assamites 
are oh-so-honestly saying since they shrugged off the 
Tremere curse: It’s open season on the Kindred of other 
clans. For the Gangrel, killing is a matter of survival, not 
a religion. On the Assamites’ part, at least they realize 
that much easier prey may be brought down.
Brujah
The Brujah and the Gangrel relate well on a superficial 
level. Violence is fun, and rebelling against authority is 
entertaining too. Relationships that dig deeper run into 
problems. The Brujah’s tendency to frenzy unnerves the 
Gangrel, who scarcely need encouragement down this 
path to ugliness and ostracism. The Gangrel’s reluctance 
to suppport the cause du jour with wild eyes and fervor 
alienates the Brujah. The Gangrel readiness to survive and 
fight another night comes across as cowardice rather than 
wisdom — and occasionally some young punk actually 
says that out loud. The clans work best together when the 
cause is clear and straightforward, and the participants 
can part ways when the sun rises.
Followers of Set
The Followers of Set have very little positive to 
say about the Gangrel, and the Gangrel return the 
favor. Both sides also have very little negative to say 
in  exchange, as the urbane Setites and the forthright 
Gangrel scarcely cross paths. Tensions run high in those 
few areas where contact is common, such as northern 
Africa and extensive city parks along the US coasts. 
Tension frequently gives way to bloodshed or treachery 
on those occasions that one side or the other is accused 
of stealing the art of shapeshifting. Gangrel inclined to 
the reptilian in form and personality have been known 
to become amicable with Setites, presumably in some 
strange snake-y way that outsiders wouldn’t understand.


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
59
Giovanni
The Giovanni and the Gangrel have practically 
nothing in common. They don’t even have anything 
meaty to argue about. As remarkable as this fact is 
among vampires, it does not make them allies. Their 
worlds simply do not meet.
Lasombra
Respect is the key word in the relationship between 
the Gangrel and the Lasombra. The Gangrel respect the 
Lasombra for their capable leadership and their appear-
ance of honesty. The Lasombra respect the Gangrel’s 
strength of character and ferocity. The Gangrel don’t 
trust the Lasombra, of course, and the Lasombra still 
attempt to make the Gangrel into political pawns. But 
at least the Gangrel know that the Keepers will think 
long and hard before screwing them over.
Malkavian
The Gangrel fear the Malkavians — any rational, 
survival-oriented Kindred does. The Malkavians are 
insightful and unpredictable — oh, and they’re also 
insane. Gangrel take great pains to weed instability out 
of their broods, at least in the young; the Beast inevi-
tably claims the minds of the old, who must be strong 
to start to withstand its ravages. The Malkavians, for 
their part, seem to sense the Gangrel’s uneasiness. Like a 
cat that knows who it can discomfit most, they seem to 
take some strange joy in keeping the Gangrel company.
Nosferatu
Kindred of these two clans have established an un-
derstanding between them, a very sad and resigned sort of 
arrangement. Neither clan can truly understand what the 
other experiences: for the Gangrel, the slow dissolution of 
personality; for the Nosferatu, the sudden obliteration of 
self-image. But it is empathy, not sympathy, that defines 
this relationship, and that’s something rare for both groups. 
Gangrel and Nosferatu do not screw each other over lightly. 
Most will not do it at all, if it can be avoided.
Ravnos 
The Gangrel and the Ravnos share a turbulent 
relationship that is centuries old, if not more so. Every 
Gangrel does not attack every Ravnos on sight, or vice 
versa; nothing keeps individuals of both clans from being 
acquaintances, members of a coterie, or even just mutu-
ally civil. What is certainly true is that most Gangrel 
who have spent time with educated sires have heard 
stories, whether about the mythical rivalry between the 
Antediluvians, the bad blood stirred up over the Gypsies 
in 15th-century Europe, or a more personal tale of deceit 
and thievery. The Ravnos must tell such stories to their 
childer as well, as even initial contacts between new 
members of both clans seem predisposed to go poorly.
Rebellious types will always embrace “the enemy” 
just because someone told them not to. Among the 
anarchs, Gangrel often feign a devil-may-care atti-
tude toward the Ravnos, while keeping a close eye on 
their gear and bolt-holes. Unlife as an anarch is tough 
enough without worrying whether your sire was actu-
ally right about those bastards. Sabbat vampires seem 
to take perverse pleasure in creating Ravnos/Gangrel 
alliances, but these undertakings usually turn out like 
so many other Sabbat affairs — short-lived and bloody. 
At the extreme, some ill-fated pairings insist that the 
continuing feud between the Gangrel and Ravnos is 
the will of the Antediluvians acted out through the 
centuries. Like Shakespearean heroes, they rebel against 
their families’ wishes — but tragedy is not much fun for 
Romeo and Juliet.
Toreador
It would be difficult to think of two vampire clans 
with less in common than the Toreador and the Gangrel. 
The Toreador consider the Gangrel to be crude, uncouth, 
dirty, pungent and lacking culture. The Gangrel, in 
return, consider the Toreador to be stuck up, elitist, 
domesticated and prone to navel contemplation. Both 
sides are usually right; with these differences out in the 
open and acknowledged, very little open conflict ever 
occurs between the Toreador and the Gangrel. They 
simply move in different circles, and are content that 
way. Rare instances of intense inter-clan cooperation 
usually center on particularly pleasant pieces of land. 
These partnerships are fleeting, as the Toreador usually 
loses interest in ecological matters once the patch of 
ground has been preserved as money in the bank or 
assets on the social registry.
Tremere
Old, bad rivalry festers between the Tremere and the 
Gangrel. The clans have been at each other’s pale throats 
since the Dark Ages, when the Warlocks encroached 
into the lands of Eastern Europe. Gangrel go missing all 
the time — and some of them, it is rumored, still wind 
up in Tremere laboratories. Resentment simmered under 
the Camarilla “truce”, and now that it no longer applies, 
many Gangrel are itching to rake their claws through 
their ancient foes. The Tremere, for their part, would 
like to see the Gangrel put down for good — perhaps to 
punish the affront to the Camarilla, and most certainly 
to put a dangerous enemy out of the way.
Tzimisce
Outsiders occasionally express surprise that the Gan-
grel and the Tzimisce do not get along famously, since they 
share such a talent for shapechanging. Gangrel prefer to use 
words like “warp” and “mutate” to refer to the Tzimisce’s 
hellish art, while the Fiends simply cannot understand 


Clanbook: Gangrel
60
the Gangrel infatuation with animals, of all things, when 
the ability to be true monsters must surely be within 
their grasp. Philosophical debates aside, the Gangrel and 
Tzimisce of a certain age share a vague resentment born 
of the conflict with the hated Tremere. Sires and their 
childer who remember those times in memory or in story 
might at least act politely — at first.
Ventrue
The Ventrue saw the Gangrel as useful. Sold on 
the metaphor, they thought of the Gangrel as hunting 
dogs, bloodhounds, even the occasional retriever. Now 
the hound has turned to bite the hand that ordered 
it around. The Gangrel attitude toward the Ventrue 
is unchanged — the uptight, self-important bastards 
couldn’t understand that, all along, the Gangrel were 
doing what they wanted to do, and not simply what 
they were ordered to do.
and you never will be. I don’t know all the details, because 
I follow step number one as closely as I can. 
The Lupines have a fair number of holy sites, usu-
ally out in the wilderness. Stay far, far away from these 
places. Even if you have a Lupine contact who invites you 
out to one. Either your contact is an idiot, or it’s a trap.
Do not pretend to be a werewolf to fit in better with 
the other werewolves. They’ll know. I don’t know how, 
precisely, but for starters they’ve got incredible senses; they 
can tell that you’re a corpse because you’re something 
called a worm. And they have their own language, which 
they don’t teach to outsiders. And their own mythology. 
If they start quizzing you about “the great wooden mon-
key spirit Shimmy-ho-ho”, you’re going to sound like a 
goddamned idiot no matter how you respond. 
If you can’t avoid a group of werewolves, keep your 
contact to a minimum. You might be able to sell them 
some information, but they’re unstable; they can’t be 
trusted not to try to kill you after you tell them what 
you know. If you must engage in conversation, keep it 
light and agreeable. Don’t talk about the hippies you just 
drank dry, and don’t debate points of ecological warfare 
with them. In a perfect world, after a few light conversa-
tions you might be able to negotiate a simple “leave each 
other alone” relationship, but it’s likely to require some 
unpleasant concessions on your part and none on theirs. 
They’re not much for negotiating, you see, and consider 
us to be one down on them just by existing.
If they’re pissy and you’re on their turf, leave. They 
can’t fly, and many of us can, so if they start to pursue 
you, turn into a bat and grab some sky. I can hear some 
of you — especially those wearing horny Viking hats 
— shouting about honor and territory and valor. You 
guys do what you want. I’ll light a candle for you in Van 
Halla or whatever.
Lupines are a fucking nightmare in a fight. I’ve only 
seen them in action on videotape — footage stolen 
from Chicago — and it did frighten me. Their “war-
form” is an eight- or nine-foot-high wolfman like out of 
The Howling, only a lot more muscular. They’re strong 
and very fast. They seem to be able to turn invisible 
at a moment’s notice. They use weapons as well as we 
do — the tape I saw opened with a barrage of gunfire 
followed by a frontal assault — and they seem to have 
Disciplines like we do as well. I’ve heard that a pack of 
werewolves could take down a Methuselah. Certainly 
a pack did rip apart Lodin, an elder and no slouch, in 
Chicago back in ’92.
If you fight one, you might be able to beat him, if you 
get the drop on him and have a gun. If you can get your 
hands on silver bullets — don’t laugh — you’ll be about 
even. If no silver bullets, try silver anything. Forks, knives, 
sharpened spoons, baseball bats or crucifixes. Anything. 
They really hate the stuff, and it seems to burn them.
The Gypsies
The Rroma, or Gypsies, share much in common with 
the Gangrel; one of these traits to never forget a debt 
owed or a favor performed. When the Rroma entered 
Europe en masse in the 15th century, their bands sought 
out letters of safe passage from local religious and secular 
authorities. Without such letters, the roving bands were 
driven out or even attacked. European Gangrel, whether 
implored by their eastern clanmates or out of a desire to 
bring Rroma companies into their debt, traded in favors 
and took on political boons to secure these letters of pas-
sage from lords and ladies under the influence of other 
clans. Even tonight, a Gangrel might introduce himself 
to a Gypsy band by stating that his grandsire obtained 
a letter of safe passage from the Abbot of Shropshire for 
Duke Michael and his band. There’s no guarantee that 
this will earn the Gangrel a favor or a safe resting place for 
the day, but it’s a better introduction than most. Of course, 
the Rroma take favors owed to them just as seriously. 
The Lupines: 
or, How to Keep Werewolves 
from Killing You
An Aside by Early Knox, Gangrel of the 10th Generation
This is a lot easier than you might think. The first 
step is simple: Avoid the Lupines whenever possible. They 
are not your friends. They don’t care if you’re on the outs 
with Kindred society. They don’t care if you have a Sierra 
Club membership. They don’t care if you drive spikes 
into redwoods to save them from chainsaws. As far as I 
can tell, they have religious issues with us. Consider the 
werewolves to resemble an angry, fanged fanatical group 
and you’ve got the right idea. While you might be able to 
befriend one who’s on the outs, or sell favors to a fleabag 
who needs help in a hurry, you are not part of the tribe, 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
61
A lot of other Kindred think that us Gangrel have a 
special relationship with the Lupines. Most of us do not, 
but the Ventrue and Tremere don’t know that. You can 
use this to your advantage in a couple of ways. First off, 
if you have a few travel routes on which you know you 
don’t get much werewolf hassle, you can make a profit 
in money or favors by selling that information off. This 
applies just as well if you know a couple of routes that 
are exceptionally dangerous; warnings to your fellow 
Cainites can score points with people who are good to 
know. Of course, if you’re leaving town or otherwise have 
your ass covered, and you want to take a shot at offing an 
enemy, you can always sell him a safe path through what 
you know to be Lupine Highway One. Just make sure he 
doesn’t survive, and that no one knows it was you that 
told him to go through there (“Yeah, I just heard about 
John. Terrible thing, too — you know, I warned him that 
the werewolves watch US 19, but he wouldn’t listen….”).
A final disclaimer: What I said above is all true, but 
it’s not the whole story. Lupines don’t think with a single 
unified mind. It is possible, albeit unlikely, that two in-
dividuals could overcome racial difficulties and become 
friends. I’m never going to try such a thing, but you may 
find yourself in a bind sometime. Good luck, you betcha.
Disciplines
Animalism
The Animalism Discipline is, naturally, one of the 
Gangrel’s strongest links to the Beast Within. At the 
earliest levels of ability, the Gangrel interact with literal 
representations of the Beast — animals and insects. 
Advancing in power, the vampire affects the abstract 
Beast (although any Gangrel who heard you refer to the 
Beast Within as “abstract” might well tie your esophagus 
in knots as an object lesson), the primal nature common 
to animals, humans and vampires. 
The most practical use of Animalism is feeding. The 
thrill of the hunt may be addictive and the blood of hu-
mans more tasty, but the ability to call four-legged supper 
to you using Beckoning is invaluable to a hurt or otherwise 
indisposed vampire. Animalism grants both the ability to 
attract animal companions and ghouls and to call those 
same animals for sustenance. This concept may cause some 
cognitive dissonance to coddled humans who buy nicely 
wrapped packages of meat in a well-lit supermarket, but to 
farmers, hunters and vampires the world over it’s completely 
natural. Animals can be warm and snuggly, but when the 
food runs out it’s you or them. The red hunger eventually 
breaks even the most fastidious human habits. These same 
basic abilities can be used offensively, as well. Imagine, if 
you will, the pest control problem suffered by the Eastern 
European Tremere, having earned the ire of the Gangrel, 
Nosferatu and Tzimisce — all users of Animalism.
The Gangrel are very fond of Subsume the Spirit, 
and sometimes even call upon it as entertainment, for 
the simple joy of seeing, smelling and tasting with an 
animal’s senses. The delight and terror of safely seeing 
the sunrise again can be freeing — or it can hurl even 
the most practical Gangrel into the throes of depres-
sion. The Gangrel usually don’t mind the side effects of 
frequent use of this power — the tendency to act like 
an animal. They make allowances for such behavior 
among themselves, as many of their number have similar 
derangements, and they learn to modify their conduct 
for outsiders — by possessing appropriate animals, if 
necessary. A Gangrel about to do a bit of investigation, 
for example, might possess a magpie to acquire its curious 
habits, while another Gangrel going to visit the prince 
might possess a wolf to ensure that his animal quirks 
include proper deference to authority.
Quell the Herd (Animalism Level Six)
This power functions along the same lines as Quell 
the Beast — the Gangrel asserts her will over mortal 
animals (or humans), subduing their Beasts with the 
terrifying power of her own. Passionate, powerful emo-
tions, or even simple attempts to assert individuality or 
will are squelched, rendering those affected apathetic 
and lethargic for the duration. Multiple targets may 
be affected; the only requirement is that the individu-
als must be able to see or hear the Gangrel. It may be 
necessary in some extreme situations to get the targets’ 
attention, but that is not likely to be difficult for a 
monster of this power.
System: The player rolls Strength + Intimidation 
(difficulty 7) — the Gangrel always forces the Beast 
into submission through fear. This is an extended ac-
tion requiring as many total successes as the target has 
Willpower (each individual target is cowed as soon as 
his Willpower is reached). The Gangrel may subdue 
twice her Willpower rating in animals and/or humans. 
If the crowd, herd or pack is too large for the vampire 
to subdue them all, the individuals with the lowest 
Willpower scores are necessarily affected first. Failure 
on any roll in the sequence means that the vampire 
must re-accumulate successes, but those individuals 
already subdued remain so. A botch on any roll in the 
sequence means that the previously subdued creatures 
seethe violently into frenzy — they immediately at-
tack the Gangrel who tried to knuckle them under, or 
anything that stands in the way.
When a mortal’s beast is cowed, he can no longer use 
or regain Willpower. He ceases all mental and physical 
struggles, not even defending himself if assaulted (the 
Storyteller may allow a Willpower roll if the mortal’s life 
is threatened). To recover from this power, the animal 
or human rolls Willpower (difficulty 6) once per day 
until he accumulates enough successes to equal the 


Clanbook: Gangrel
62
Gangrel’s Willpower. Kindred are not affected by this 
power, generally, but their ghoul retainers are.
MET System: Make a Social Challenge simul-
taneously against any number of targets, up to twice 
your current Willpower. Use the Mob Scene rules in 
Laws of the Night, p. 196 — bid Traits and resolve 
the simultaneous challenges as if you were attacking 
multiple targets in physical combat. As with Quell the 
Beast, targets who fail to resist cannot use Willpower 
Traits and gain Submissive x 2 for the rest of the night.
Stampede (Animalism Level Seven)
A deep, innate knowledge of animal instinct allows 
the Gangrel to trigger a very specific fear in his victims 
— a unthinking panic that pushes hundreds of creatures 
into headlong flight. This ability only works on large 
groups of people; too few, and the aggregate fear will not 
be enough to override sensible plans of action. Also, the 
crowd or herd must be already agitated by some mun-
dane occurrence, such as the smell of a large predator, 
a lost football game by the home team or a shortage of 
this year’s fad toy during prime shopping season. (The 
Gangrel may cause the “mundane” situation — by be-
ing the large predator, influencing the outcome of the 
soccer match, or waylaying the toys — but this is not 
necessary or even wise.) Once this power takes hold, its 
victims will flee until they escape the vampire’s influence 
or until they are rendered unable to run.
System: This power must be activated within sight 
of a crowd of roughly 50 agitated mortals (the Storyteller 
may allow this power to be used on smaller groups of 
really pissed-off mortals). The player rolls Stamina + 
Animal Ken (difficulty 7). The resulting waves of terror 
roll 50 yards in all directions from the Gangrel for each 
success achieved. Any unsettled mortal within this radius 
will immediately flee toward the nearest escape or exit 
unless the Gangrel chooses to direct the Stampede by 
force of will. The vampire may set a direction or path 
for the fleeing multitudes, but may not change or alter 
Optional Systems for Animalism
Storytellers may choose to allow the following modifications to Animalism as written in Vampire: The 
Masquerade. Or, they may not — players are hereby advised to ask nicely if they see an effect they like. Note 
that all of these powers build upon the extant levels of Animalism — Storytellers who do not wish those 
Kindred wielding the Discipline to have more potency should disallow these options.
The Upright Animal
Some Gangrel antitribu and independents following Paths of Enlightenment have claimed the ability to 
use Animalism on humans. For example, some Gangrel insist that they have called the homeless to a secluded 
haven, or spoken intelligibly to a human while wearing an animal form. Kindred have long expressed their 
contempt for the kine (literally, cattle), so this success may not be surprising. Storytellers will want to think 
carefully about allowing this option to be used in their chronicles; it helps to starkly illumine the vampire’s 
place in the grand scheme, but it is also a capability that may be abused. Also, referring to the less fortunate 
as animals isn’t particularly enlightened, though it may serve the story. If this option is allowed, the difficulty 
of such tasks should increase sharply.
Quell the Beast (Animalism Level Three)
The Beast Within of supernatural creatures is far more resilient and stubborn than the Beast of a normal 
mortal. Vampires, Lupines, fae, the strange undead of the East and other unusual creatures will never be cowed 
by the use of this power, but the violent extremes of their behavior may be limited. Storytellers may allow 
Gangrel using this ability to attempt to pull any supernatural entity out of a frenzylike state using the same 
system as to subdue a mortal.
Subsume the Spirit (Animalism Level Four)
Multiple successes with this power allow the use of various mental and spiritual Disciplines while in the 
host animal’s body. At the Storyteller’s discretion, the player may instead use these successes to directly reduce 
the number of Willpower points that must be spent to completely overcome the power’s aftereffects. Particularly 
generous Storytellers may allow the player to allocate the extra successes on the fly, and to use the successes 
that remain when the power is terminated toward reducing the Willpower expenditure.
Drawing Out the Beast (Animalism Level Five)
The Gangrel generally understand the Beast Within. At the Storyteller’s discretion, losing the Beast when 
the subject of this power leaves the Gangrel’s line of sight or hearing is only a temporary inconvenience, as 
there is probably no place the Beast would rather be. This may not always hold true — other Gangrel, members 
of clans with Animalism or (gulp) Lupines may provide comfortable homes for the Beast. A wise Gangrel does 
not use this power on anyone she suspects might be as feral as she.


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
63
it once the flight has begun. Members of the Stampede 
will ignore many potential sources of danger, such as 
running into the road or through a firing range, but will 
not take obviously suicidal actions like leaping off tall 
cliffs or skyscrapers. In some cases, however, the crazed 
mob will not see potential danger in time — or be forced 
into it anyway by the pressure of the crowd behind them. 
Mortals who were not initially affected may be caught 
up physically or emotionally in the tide, as the Gangrel’s 
projected Beast wreaks havoc for a scene unless he chooses 
to end the madness earlier. Upon leaving the affected area, 
mortals may recover their senses and stop their mad rush. 
If the area is bottlenecked, however, such as a long hallway 
or valley, the mortals may opt to continue fleeing rather 
than be trampled. It is worth noting that this power can go 
awry, even without a rolled botch — the power of hundreds 
of Beasts, even those of mortals, can be too much for the 
vampire to control. Animals pushed too hard may frenzy, 
and people have a disturbing tendency to riot.
MET System: Make a Static Social Challenge against 
a number of Traits equal to the highest Willpower of any-
one in the target crowd. The Stampede affects everyone 
within 50 yards of you; each additional Social Trait you 
spend extends the range another 50 yards. Individuals 
whose Willpower is equal to or less than half your Social 
Trait total succumb automatically. Individuals whose 
Willpower is at least half your Social Traits may spend 
a point of Willpower to make a Static Social Challenge 
against your Social Trait total; if they succeed, they resist 
the urge to Stampede. Characters whose Willpower equals 
or exceeds your Social Trait total may make the same test 
without spending a point of Willpower.
Crimson Fury (Animalism Level Eight)
This power is the subject of much rumor and con-
jecture, as it has very little visible effect. Upon reaching 
this level of mastery, the Gangrel may choose to allow his 
Beast to roam freely through his veins. His blood causes 
frenzy in mortals and vampires who taste it. Should a 
diablerist successfully consume the Gangrel’s soul, she 
may well meet a grisly end as the Gangrel’s Beast eats 
her away from the inside.
System: This power is activated once, when the 
Gangrel learns it. It cannot be turned off. The smallest 
taste of the vampire’s vitae causes agitation in the taster, 
who must make a Self-Control roll (difficulty 7) or frenzy 
immediately. This applies to newly created childer, ghouls, 
attackers who bite and any vampires who would drink 
from the Gangrel. This is the equivalent of a warning 
shot for would-be diablerists. Should the attacker resist 
the urge to frenzy, she may continue to drink as normal, 
but the supernatural agitation she experiences should be 
a clear sign that something is unusual about this vitae. 
If the attacker succumbs to the frenzy, she must spend a 
Willpower point for each turn she continues to drink.


Clanbook: Gangrel
64
Should the diablerist be successful, she immediately 
suffers a +2 difficulty on all frenzy rolls for a duration de-
termined by the Storyteller. She must also make an opposed 
Willpower roll against her victim’s Beast (which has the 
same Willpower rating that the now-deceased vampire 
had). The loser of this contest forfeits one permanent 
Willpower point. This contest takes place every month for 
the first year past the diablerie and once a year thereafter. 
As the diablerist loses Willpower, she becomes more feral 
and impulsive (this should be roleplayed, and the Story-
teller should feel free to require frequent Self-Control rolls 
from the diablerist’s player). If the diablerist loses her last 
Willpower point, she becomes a crazed, bestial monster 
(and a Storyteller character). If the invading Beast loses 
its last Willpower point, it becomes quiescent, ceding 
victory to the diablerist. The evidence of diablerie in 
the perpetrator’s aura persists until the Beast is subdued.
Humanity or Path rating loss may result from the 
actions the “possessed” diablerist takes, but they are not 
lost as a direct result of this power.
Gangrel legends suggest that some incredibly power-
ful “victims” of diablerie have eaten their way through 
their attackers, consuming the diablerist’s soul in turn, 
and then taken over the new body. This is not the nor-
mal result of this power, but the rumors do circulate.…
MET System: Anyone feeding on you must make 
a Self-Control Test against four Traits to avoid enter-
ing frenzy. Anyone attempting to diablerize you must 
spend one Willpower point each turn for the duration 
of the attempt. If someone does successfully diablerize 
you, the diablerist suffers a permanent one-Trait penalty 
on all future frenzy checks. (A vampire who reaches 
Self-Control 1 falls into immediate Wassail then, in-
stead of doing so upon reaching Self-Control 0.) The 
diablerist must also make a series of Willpower Tests 
against her own Beast, which gains (for this purpose) 
the Willpower total of the vampire who used Crimson 
Frenzy. The loser of each challenge loses a point of 
permanent Willpower, until the diablerist or her Beast 
loses control altogether. The diablerist must make one 
of these Willpower Tests each week for the first year 
after diablerie, once per month during the second year, 
and once per year thereafter.
Eyes of the Forest  
(Animalism Level Nine)
This awe-inspiring power is at the root of many folk 
tales about brooding forests and forbidding mountains. 
The vampire inters herself in the ground of her chosen 
domain, spreading her physical and spiritual self through 
the area. Unlike a vampire using Earth Meld, the Gangrel 
cannot be simply dug out of the ground. The animals 
and even insects within the area serve as the Gangrel’s 
eyes and ears, providing her with an intimate knowledge 
of the nighttime goings-on of her domain.
System: This power costs six blood points to activate 
and it lasts as long as the Gangrel wishes to remain beneath 
her domain. The area itself should be relatively well-defined 
geographically, although it can be quite large: a mountain 
or valley, an isolated wood, a plateau. The vampire sees 
and hears everything within the enclosed area through 
the animals and insects that inhabit it. Additionally, the 
Gangrel may use mental Disciplines that do not require 
physical or eye contact to initiate. While the power is active, 
it is impossible to attack the Gangrel directly. Significant 
damage to her domain, however — fires, strip mining, 
explosives, chemical contaminants — will also damage 
the vampire, and are likely to drive her from the ground.
The area under the Gangrel’s influence reflects the 
vampire’s nature. Even the most cheerful wood during 
daylight becomes a place of terror for mere mortals 
when the sun sets.
Should two masters of Animalism somehow “claim” 
the same area, the Cainite with the greatest Willpower 
achieves success. This may result in an established Kin-
dred being forced to rise and flee the area, or it might 
rouse the other Kindred on a quest for vengeance on 
the trespasser.
Fortitude
Fortitude needs little discussion, but that is not to say 
that the Gangrel take their preternatural hardiness for 
granted. Any vampire who has ever escaped a forest fire, 
caught an unexpected glimpse of the desert sun over the rise 
of a dune or narrowly avoided destruction at the claws of a 
Lupine knows how vital this simple Discipline is. To add 
a little spice to the issue, note that Fortitude’s protection 
against fire and the sun counters the apocryphal curse of 
the angels. Some might suggest that the use of Fortitude 
in this manner is sacrilegious or blasphemous, but the 
Gangrel aren’t the type to go belly-up in the sunlight just 
to appease some legendary holy guy with a sword.
Gangrel elders have developed some unusual ex-
tensions of the basic Fortitude ability to protect and 
fortify. These powers protect the senses, the mind and 
the spirit instead of the physical body.
Sensory Shield (Fortitude Level Six)
A Gangrel using this power supernaturally hardens 
his senses against injurious input. The vampire cannot 
be blinded by spotlights or sudden bursts of radiance, 
or deafened by explosions or gunfire; even his capacity 
to withstand pain is improved. His eyes, ears, nose, 
and open wounds glow with an eerie light while this 
power is active.
System: Spending two blood points activates this 
power for a scene. Mundane sources of overwhelming 
sensory input, such as searchlights, muzzle flash or 
pepper spray have no effect, even if sensory-enhancing 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
65
powers like Heightened Senses are in use. The effects of 
supernatural sensory attacks or unusual circumstances 
(like being at ground zero for a massive explosion) may 
be soaked with the vampire’s Fortitude dice, with each 
success reducing the effect or duration of the sensory 
damage, or negating it all together. In addition, the 
Gangrel’s wound penalties are reduced by two; he feels 
no pain whatsoever until he reaches the Crippled level, 
when he runs into only a three-dice penalty. At the 
end of the scene, wound penalties for all accumulated 
damage are applied as normal.
The phosphorescent glow streaming from the vam-
pire’s orifices and wounds is nearly impossible to hide, 
and inflicts a two-dice penalty on social interactions 
with mortals (other than intimidation).
MET System: Spend two Blood Traits. You become 
immune for one hour to normally overwhelming sensory 
input — searchlights, gunfire, pepper spray and the like 
— even if you’re using Heightened Senses and other pow-
ers that increase you vulnerability to sensory overload. 
You take two fewer Traits’ penalties from wounds than 
usual while Sensory Shield remains in effect; any damage 
you suffer during the hour takes full effect when Sensory 
Shield wears off. You may make a Static Test of your 
levels of Fortitude against the Trait penalty imposed by 
particularly severe environmental problems, like being 
at ground zero of a massive explosion. If you succeed, 
you can reduce the penalty by one Trait, plus one per 
Physical Trait you spend.
Your wounds and orifices glow while Sensory Shield 
remains in effect; you suffer a two-Trait penalty in all 
Social Challenges against mortals during this time.
Resilient Mind (Fortitude Level 
Seven)
At this level of accomplishment, the Gangrel 
extends her preternatural resistance to the very depths 
of her personality. Upon acquiring this power, the 
vampire may suddenly shed centuries of paranoia, tics, 
quirks and other perturbations that have accumulated 
in the cobwebby recesses of her brain. Additionally, it 
becomes more difficult to use mental Disciplines against 
the vampire. Unfortunately, this mental stability comes 
at a cost to the Gangrel; upon learning this power; the 
vampire must acquire physical animal flaws exclusively.
System: Upon learning this power, the Gangrel 
makes a Willpower roll (difficulty 7). For each success, 
the vampire may choose to eliminate one derangement 
or two animal behavior flaws (any Social Attribute points 
lost due in whole or part to those flaws remain lost). This 
effect of the power occurs only once and is immediate.
The vampire permanently gains three extra dice 
to resist the effects of any mind-altering Discipline or 
magic. This bonus does not apply to Presence or other 
Disciplines that affect the emotions.


Clanbook: Gangrel
66
Finally, if the vampire gains a derangement for 
any reason after learning this power, the player may 
immediately make a Willpower roll (difficulty 6). If 
she achieves three successes, the derangement persists 
through the night and the following day, but is sloughed 
off as the vampire rises with the sunset. Willpower may 
not be spent on this roll.
MET System: When you learn this power, make 
an Extended Static Willpower Test against eight Traits. 
Each success lets you choose one derangement or two 
animal-behavior flaws to discard (the Social Traits lost 
to these flaws remain lost).
You permanently gain three bonus Traits in chal-
lenges to resist mind-altering Disciplines and magic, 
though you are not immune to Presence and other pow-
ers that affect the emotions rather than the intellect. 
If you develop a derangement, you may make an Static 
Willpower Test against seven Traits. (The Trait bonus 
applies to resisting the circumstances that forced the 
derangement on you, but not to this test to cure it.) If 
you succeed, spend three Mental Traits. The derange-
ment remains in effect that night and through the next 
day, then vanishes on the following sunset. You may not 
spend Willpower for retests in this challenge.
King of the Mountain  
(Fortitude Level Eight)
The most formidable opponents are not only hard 
to hurt, they are also hard to even touch. This power 
combines some of the effects of the Personal Armor 
power with an aura of resistance that impedes attack-
ers, making it trivially easy for the Gangrel to block the 
incoming attacks of numerous opponents.
System: The Gangrel spends three blood points 
to activate this power, which lasts for a scene. The 
vampire does not gain the benefits of this power when 
he actively attacks. Instead, the vampire must block or 
dodge all incoming attacks, and may use his full dice 
pool against each attack. Every time an attack is made 
with a weapon against the Gangrel, his player rolls 
Fortitude (difficulty 6) in addition to the Dexterity + 
Brawl roll to block. If the Fortitude roll grants more suc-
cesses than the attacker rolled, the weapon used in the 
attack shatters on contact with the vampire (mystically 
imbued weapons may be resistant to this effect at the 
Storyteller’s discretion). If the roll to block succeeds, 
the vampire suffers no damage from the attack (if the 
block fails, the vampire may soak the damage normally, 
using Fortitude). 
Hand-to-hand attacks may also be blocked. Success-
ful hand-to-hand attacks inflict the attacker’s damage 
on both the attacker and the vampire using this power. 
Blocked hand-to-hand attacks inflict the attacker’s dam-
age only on herself. In both cases, the damage may be 
soaked normally. Additionally, the defending vampire 
does not suffer the standard multiple-attacker penalty, 
no matter how many assailants he faces.
MET System: Spend three Blood Traits to active 
this power, which lasts for one hour. You get full Trait total 
for all defensive actions, rather than splitting your Trait 
pool. (This benefit doesn’t extend to offensive actions, 
which suffer the usual penalties for multiple actions.) 
Any attacker must succeed in a two-part challenge. 
First, make the initial Physical Challenge as usual. The 
vampire defending with King of the Mountain wins on 
ties. If the attacker fails the initial challenge, his weapon 
shatters (unless enchanted or supernaturally reinforced) 
and he suffers the damage that would normally go to the 
defender. If the attacker ties, his weapon shatters, but 
he escapes personal damage. If the attacker wins, then 
he must make a Simple Test. Only if that succeeds does 
he actually inflict damage on the defender. (Vampires 
with Superior Potence get to skip this second test and 
inflict damage if they succeed in the initial attack.)
Protean
The Protean Discipline is native to the Gangrel. 
They are the only vampires to whom the Discipline 
comes as primarily as the need to drink blood and avoid 
sunlight. The Discipline is a primal expression of the 
Beast Within, a harnessing of the feral power in every 
vampire but especially abundant in the Gangrel.
If the world were a fair place, the vampires of the 
other clans would thank the Gangrel for discovering 
such potential in the vampiric form. Over the millen-
nia, the abilities granted by the Protean Discipline have 
saved countless vampires from Final Death by providing 
sight in the blackest nights, protection from enemies 
and protection from the deadly rays of the sun. In the 
nights of the First City, the Gangrel freely shared to 
any who would learn the art of coaxing and threatening 
the Beast into obedience. Any vampire who wished to 
travel more than a night away from his haven learned, 
as a matter of necessity, how to meld with the earth at 
the coming of dawn.
Since those earliest times, most Gangrel have be-
come miserly in sharing their secrets. The other clans 
have carefully passed their second-hand knowledge of 
the art from sire to childe, or else offered something of 
value to the Gangrel in exchange for instruction. The 
Discipline has also become less vital to survival — cov-
ered carriages, trains, automobiles and other modern 
conveyances have reduced the risks of travel for even 
the weakest vampire. 
Still, the Gangrel hold tightly to the Protean 
Discipline, teaching it carefully to their broods and 
pushing the limits of their abilities as they make their 
way alone. The Gangrel know that Protean is not about 
convenience — it is about survival, now and always. 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
67
Animal Forms
The Gangrel display their mastery of the Protean 
ability most dramatically with the Shape of the Beast. This 
ability usually grants the vampire the shape of a wolf or 
bat. In fact, vampires who are not Gangrel can only ever 
take these two forms. Gangrel vampires are not limited 
in the same manner, however — they take the shapes 
of lions, eagles, bears, crows and uncountable others.
Some restrictions do exist to the Gangrel’s shapechang-
ing ability. First, the Gangrel must establish her forms upon 
learning the Shape of the Beast, and she may not assume 
other forms. Second, the vampire’s forms must always 
reflect the twin urges of the Beast: fight or flight.
The Gangrel’s “fight” form is large and naturally well-
equipped for hunting and fighting. The animals represented 
are usually predators, but may also be scavengers — all 
consume the flesh of others to survive. The animal shape 
assumed is hale and apparently healthy, and generally 
tends to large size for its type — although in the case of 
animals of great size, such as a grizzly bear or sharks among 
the Mariners, the Gangrel may even be small compared 
to normal creatures. The City Gangrel of the Sabbat are 
a large exception to the above. They may assume animal 
forms that are mangy and downright diseased-looking, such 
as city mutts or rats of uncommon size. The camouflage 
provided by such nasty-looking forms far outweighs the 
flea collar jokes these Gangrel must put up with.
It has become more common in recent years for the 
rare Gangrel to assume the gigantic form of an animal that 
does not ever reach such size in nature — spiders, wasps, 
scorpions, rats, hyenas and others. This hasn’t caused a 
great outcry among the clan’s elders. It is possible that 
these forms were common in the distant past, and faded 
from use for some strange reason. It has been the cause 
of some social upheaval among the young and active 
members of the clan; Gangrel who assume these exotic 
forms, particularly the insectoid varieties, often have 
very strange, even alien ways of thinking and behaving. 
These Gangrel sometimes migrate toward the Sabbat, 
where they quickly leave their Humanity behind and turn 
their terrifying hive mentality to the service of the sect. 
It is rumored that in the past, the Gangrel could 
assume the forms of noble prey animals, such as the stag 
or the horse. Such Gangrel, if they exist, have not been 
seen in the Final Nights, and the modern Gangrel would 
be hard-pressed to see any need to transform themselves 
into the eaten instead of the eaters. 
The Gangrel’s “flight” form need not literally be a 
winged creature. It may be any form best suited for running 
away, whether that method is taking to the air, scrambling 
through tunnels, or simply fleeing pell-mell on four legs. 
Even though the focus of this form is on raw survival 
and not sustenance, the Gangrel only assume the forms 
of predators or scavengers — the nature of the vampire’s 
Beast is inextricably linked to the need to consume others, 
even if the other in question is a bug. 
Actual flight is usually the best method for escape, 
in addition to being incredibly useful for scouting and 
information gathering. The bat remains a popular form 
for the Gangrel, along with birds like ravens, crows and 
falcons. Particularly warlike Gangrel may take the forms 
of hawks, eagles and even vultures, but these relatively 
huge “flight” forms lose some of the escape benefits that 
come with a smaller shape. 
Earthbound “flight” forms rely either on speed or the 
ability to slip through small spaces to escape. Snakes, 
gophers, house cats and rats are common forms. At least 
one Gangrel in the American South has been known to 
take on a possum shape, which, while eminently flawed 
against intelligent enemies, serves the purpose when 
dealing with lesser creatures. Like the “fight” forms, 
these animal forms are usually apparently in the prime 
of health, but they are not unusually large for their type 
— that would defeat the purpose.
Adopt a Pet
Sabbat Gangrel, both City and Country, are 
fond of a game usually called “Adopt a Pet.” The 
vampire assumes a suitable animal form, such as that 
of a dog or cat, and makes soulful eyes at nighttime 
passerby until some soft-hearted animal lover takes 
her home. The game usually ends before sunrise 
with a houseful of victims bloodily slain in their 
beds — the Gangrel rarely have the patience to 
carry on the charade for longer than one night. A 
lot of prestige can be gained by playing along for 
longer periods of time; the risks of getting caught 
in daylight are not small (“Why does Patches sleep 
in the basement all day, Mommy?”), and the results 
of a carefully planned assault can be spectacular. 
Inciting domestic violence and a shoot-out with the 
police, or taking down several family generations at 
the Thanksgiving dinner table, all earn a great deal 
of respect. “Son of Sam” is the height to which all 
participants aspire. A game of “Adopt a Pet” that 
goes wrong will get the Gangrel heckled forever; 
Sabbat Gangrel spread apocryphal tales of vampire 
mutts hauled to the vet to be “fixed.”
Shape of the Beast Revisited  
(Protean Level Four)
This version of Shape of the Beast applies only to 
vampires of Clan Gangrel. The Gangrel may transform 
into a “fight” form and a “flight” form; these forms are 
chosen when the power is acquired and may not be 
changed. The vampire keeps his own personality, memo-
ries, and skills and can also use the natural abilities of the 


Clanbook: Gangrel
68
animal form — these are increased physical attributes in 
the “fight” form, and escape abilities in the “flight” form. 
Both animal forms grant improved senses; the Gangrel 
may choose to reduce the difficulty of Perception rolls in 
one appropriate sense group — sight, hearing, or smell/
taste — by two in his animal forms (the sense group may 
be different in the two forms). 
System: The character spends one blood point to 
assume either animal form. The transformation requires 
three turns to complete (spending additional blood 
points reduces the transformation time by one turn 
per point spent, to a minimum of one). The Gangrel 
remains in his beast form until the next dawn, unless 
he wishes to change back sooner. Clothing and small 
personal possessions transform with the Gangrel.
The Gangrel’s “fight” form grants a total of five 
additional Attribute points split among the vampire’s 
Physical Attributes. These points must be applied to at 
least two of the Attributes. For the standard wolf form, 
these are allotted as +1 to Strength, +2 to Dexterity, and 
+2 to Stamina. A bear form may increase the Gangrel’s 
Strength by +3 and Stamina by +2. These points must 
be allocated when the “fight” animal form is chosen 
and may not be thereafter rearranged. In addition, the 
Gangrel’s bite inflicts Strength aggravated damage, and 
claws inflict Strength +1 aggravated damage (these 
damage values may be adjusted by the Storyteller as 
necessary to reflect the animal’s primary mode of attack 
— an alligator form may allow a greater bite bonus, but 
no claw damage). Running speed is usually doubled, 
unless an alternate method of locomotion like swim-
ming is available. 
The Gangrel’s “flight” form reduces the vampire’s 
Strength to 1, but allows him to fly at a speed equal to his 
running movement rate (Gangrel whose “flight” forms do 
not fly may take a +2 bonus to Dexterity). In addition, 
attacks made against the “flight” form are made at +2 
difficulty due to the animal’s small size (those Gangrel 
who take large forms like the eagle may keep their full 
Strength by sacrificing this size bonus).
While in the animal’s shape, the vampire can use any 
Discipline he possesses except Necromancy, Serpentis, 
Thaumaturgy or Vicissitude. The vampire loses all use of 
his hands and all facility of speech — the vampire must 
use the Animalism Discipline ability Feral Whispers 
speak to animals. All Attributes and Abilities granted 
by animal forms are subject to the Storyteller’s approval 
and modification at the time of definition.
It is curious to note that animal features acquired 
by a Gangrel after a frenzy do not necessarily conform 
to those of her beast forms. Most Gangrel seem to be 
patchworks of feral features rather than changing to 
resemble one specific animal.
Dr. Netchurch:
Tonight 20 years of careful experimentation have 
come to fruition in a most disappointing way. I have 
been attempting for years to learn more about our 
Protean Discipline through scientific means. My first 
experiments were conducted on my own childer with 
the purpose of learning more about how we of Clan 
Gangrel assume — or choose, perhaps — our animal 
forms. These experiments met with a measured degree 
of success. It appears that the form a given sub-
ject assumes can be influenced to some degree, which 
thereby implies a similar degree of conscious or 
unconscious choice in the matter. 
My experiment of tonight was an attempt to learn 
more about Protean by studying how it is practiced 
by other clans. To wit: I have made an attempt to 
discern why vampires of other clans seem quite in-
capable of transforming themselves into any shape 
other than that of a wolf or a bat. To do this, I 
procured an infant immediately after birth, and 
raised the infant to young adulthood in a precisely 
controlled environment. My subject (I have named 
her Anna) was never permitted to see or hear of the 
existence of either the bat or the wolf. 
(Regrettably, this has left her education sparse 
in terms of both biology and literature, but I 
believe I have done well by her in terms of math-
ematical education. But I digress.)
Upon the reaching the mature age of 14, the sub-
ject was brought into the vampiric state by a member 
of Clan Toreador, with all necessary approvals and 
considerations obtained by me (at considerable cost, 
I might add). I then personally taught the young 
vampire the Protean Discipline, refraining at all 
times from any mention of the wolf or bat forms. 
Anna knew only that on achieving a certain degree of 
control over her form, she would assume an animal 
shape.
This night, under laboratory conditions, Anna 
transformed herself into a wolf. At times like 
this I despair of describing our condition and our 
abilities in any terms that could be considered 
scientific. I cannot explain or discern any quality 
of the blood that would allow this control to the 
Gangrel yet to no others. I console myself with the 
thought that one subject does not constitute a full 
study.
I will procure a fresh infant and begin my study 
again. Perhaps, if I am feeling unscientific in 14 
years, I will instead choose to experiment with the 
strange qualities of the blood of the 14th and 15th 
generations. 
I must leave my assistants to enter the formal 
lab notes on this experiment. Anna is upset with me 
for some reason, and her Toreador sire has abandoned 
her simply because she does not have the ability to 
appear as an exotic creature. I am a poor scientist, 
I fear; I have become attached to my subject.
Sincerely,
Dr. Allan T. Woodstock


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
69
It is often difficult to predict what forms a Gangrel 
will assume when she learns Shape of the Beast. Three 
factors play an important role in the process: the vam-
pire’s personality, his sire’s animal forms and the local 
environment at the time of the vampire’s Embrace.
The vampire’s personality and beliefs are perhaps 
the most important factor — after all, the animal forms 
assumed using Shape of the Beast are an expression of 
the Beast Within. Vampires with strong personality traits 
often transform into the animal most often attributed 
that trait by superstition: wolves with cunning, lions with 
courage, reptiles with callousness, ravens with curiosity, 
etc. These superstitions are culturally based, and their 
interpretations will naturally change between cultures. 
Individuals who felt a strong affinity with a particular 
animal when alive, who considered the animal to be a 
totem or protective spirit, will usually transform into 
that animal upon learning Shape of the Beast. 
The role of the sire is a matter of some dispute 
among Gangrel researchers. It is possible that the sire’s 
influence affects the childe’s expectations; if the childe 
sees her sire transform into a tiger, she may assume that 
she will do the same so completely that her assump-
tion becomes reality. The Discipline exhibits lines of 
descent, however, in which grandsire, sire and childe 
all share the same animal forms. Given the tenacity of 
the Gangrel blood, elders interested in such matters 
do not consider it to be out of the question that such 
preferences are a factor of blood.
The influence of the local environment can perhaps 
be credited with the popularity of the wolf and bat forms 
even among the Gangrel —wolves and bats of varying 
species populate the globe. The vampire’s Beast, in 
the absence of overriding personality or blood-related 
factors, provides the vampire with the most survivable 
form available in the surrounds; a form that provides 
not only hunting or escape, but also camouflage, offers 
an undeniable advantage. It is unlikely that a vampire 
raised and Embraced in the Great Plains will transform 
into a tiger or a shark. The forms of wolf and hawk, in 
this instance, are both useful and safe. They are native 
creatures suited to the environment. 
MET System: Decide on a “fight” form and a “flight” 
form when the vampire acquires this power. Spend a 
Blood Trait to active either one. The transformation 
takes three turns (two if you spend a second Blood Trait, 
and only one if you spend three Blood Traits) and lasts 
until dawn or earlier if the vampire chooses to regain 
human form.
Each form adds five bonus Traits. They must be di-
vided among at least two of the categories given in Laws 
of the Night, Revised Edition, p. 80-83: Strength-related, 
Dexterity-related, Stamina-related, Perception-related and 
Wits-related. The classic wolf form, for instance, gains Quick 
and Lithe (Dexterity-related); Tireless (Stamina-related); 
Attentive (Perception-related); and Alert (Wits-related). 
The usual bear form adds Brawny, Ferocious, and Tough 
(Strength-related), and Enduring and Robust (Stamina-
related). Assign the specific Trait bonuses when choosing 
the forms. They remain fixed thereafter. 
Your animal form’s bite does two levels of aggravated 
damage, and claws do one level of aggravated damage. 
In some cases, the Storyteller may wish to adjust this: an 
alligator form might have a stronger bite but no claws, for 
instance. The animal form runs at double your normal 
speed, or at normal speed with an additional mode like 
swimming or burrowing.
The flight form has a limit of three Physical Traits, 
chosen from among your regular Trait list, and flies at 
your running speed. Quick but ground-bound forms get 
three bonus Traits for purposes of initiative and evasion. 
Attacks made against the flight form incur a two-Trait 
penalty, though you may choose to keep all Strength-
related Traits and sacrifice this advantage.
The flight form allows you to declare Fair Escape 
once at least five paces from the nearest pursuer, unless 
the pursuer has more levels of heightened speed.
Shape Mastery (Protean Level Six)
Gangrel who have mastered this level of shapeshift-
ing may use the power of their blood to force other 
shapechangers to resume their normal forms. For the 
power to function, the Gangrel must have some por-
tion of her blood in contact with the target, whether 
unwillingly or willingly. (One Gangrel wag has referred 
to using this power on the Tzimisce Bloodform as 
“throwing good blood after bad.”)
System: The Gangrel must first place her blood 
on the target. If the target has successfully attacked the 
Gangrel with natural weapons, or with a short weapon 
like a knife, this requirement is fulfilled. Otherwise, the 
Gangrel must smear at least one blood point worth of her 
vitae on the target by making a successful attack or sprinkle 
it surreptitiously on an unsuspecting target. This may be 
done in advance, but the blood must still be wet for the 
power to work. The Gangrel activates the power of her 
blood by spending an additional blood point and making 
a Perception + Survival roll (difficulty 7). Two successes 
are required to force the target out of his shapeshifted form.
The power persists for a full scene, or until the target 
removes the Gangrel’s vitae from his body, whichever is 
sooner. (The amount of time necessary to clean up the 
blood is subject to the Storyteller’s discretion, taking 
into account the quantity of blood and the availability 
of cleaning supplies. The process should take at least one 
full turn of action even with large quantities of water 
available.) If the target has actually consumed the Gan-
grel’s blood, tough luck — the power will persist for the 


Clanbook: Gangrel
70
full scene. The target must reactivate his shapeshifting 
ability when and if he chooses to resume his adapted 
form, re-incurring any associated costs.
This power is effective on the shapeshifted forms 
of the following Disciplines at Levels Six and below: 
Obtenebration, Protean, Serpentis, Thaumaturgy, and 
Vicissitude. Most importantly, it also confounds the 
native shapechanging abilities of Lupines and other 
werecreatures. 
MET System: Apply a Blood Trait’s worth of vitae 
onto the target, as discussed in the main text. A success-
ful Physical Challenge allows you to pin a target long 
enough to smear on blood, and a Mental Challenge 
lets you sneak up to pour blood on an unwitting target. 
Spend a second Blood Trait. Make a Social Challenge. 
If it succeeds, the target must revert to human form and 
stay that way for one hour or until the blood is entirely 
removed, whichever comes first.
Animal Swarm (Protean Level Seven)
Upon activating this power, the Gangrel dissolves 
into a swarm of small creatures such as rats, crows or 
scorpions. The creatures remain under the Gangrel’s 
control, and he may direct them in unison or as indi-
viduals. The vampire may reform from all or any of the 
creatures, but forfeits the blood carried by any creatures 
that do not rejoin the whole. 
System: The Gangrel may disperse into as many 
creatures as he has blood points, with each creature 
carrying that one blood point; he may choose to form 
fewer creatures, in which case the blood points are di-
vided as evenly as possible among them. The creatures 
may act in concert, or individually follow a simple plan 
such as “scatter and hide.” The Gangrel may pay close 
attention to only one component creature at a time. 
For example, he may listen in on a conversation using 
the body of one rat, while directing the dozen others 
to keep moving and avoid being seen. 
This power lasts until sunrise, or until the Gangrel 
chooses to retake his humanoid form. At that time, all 
of the component creatures present are re-absorbed into 
the Gangrel’s body, along with the blood points they 
carried. If this leaves the vampire with less than three 
blood points, he must immediately check for frenzy — 
the Gangrel who is forced to re-incorporate himself from 
a crow carrying a single point of his blood is potentially 
in bad shape. Creatures who do not rejoin the Gangrel’s 
body may be reabsorbed through the course of the night. 
Any creatures left running around at dawn instantly 
dissolve into small piles of ash and blood, whether they 
are in direct sunlight or not. The vampire must reform 
at sunrise, even if only from a single creature, although 
he may choose which creature to re-incorporate from.


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
71
The vampire may use the following Disciplines 
while in this myriad form: Auspex, Celerity, Fortitude, 
Obfuscate, and Potence. Any Disciplines that require 
the expenditure of blood must be fueled from the indi-
vidual creature that uses the power; component creatures 
reduced to zero blood points are immediately destroyed.
This power takes one turn to take effect, regardless of 
the size of the creatures into which the Kindred disperses.
MET System: The vampire disperses herself into 
one small creature per current Blood Trait she possesses, 
or fewer, larger ones who share the Blood Traits as evenly 
as possible. The power otherwise works as presented in 
the main text. This power can be very difficult to simu-
late in play; Storytellers are advised to think carefully 
about how a single player can represent a swarm of rats 
before allowing this into their chronicles.
Mythic Form (Protean Level Eight)
Using this power, the Gangrel transforms himself 
into a creature of myth, complete with the terrifying 
abilities that such creatures must have possessed. The 
mythical beast form usually has roots in the Gangrel’s 
cultural tradition: e.g. ancient Scythian vampires often 
chose the form of the griffin, Egyptian Gangrel may 
choose the sphinx, and Native American vampires may 
opt for the form of the thunderbird. In addition to the 
great size and terrifying mien of these creatures, the 
Gangrel also acquires any special abilities commonly at-
tributed to the mythic beast; a griffin, for example, would 
have the ability to fly and a devastating claw attack.
System: The player spends three blood points to trigger 
the change. The transformation requires three turns (ad-
ditional blood points may not be spent to speed the change, 
but the Gangrel may continue to act without penalty as the 
transformation occurs). The transformation lasts until the 
next sunrise, or until the vampire voluntarily returns to her 
natural form. Note that characters hailing from cultures 
that have no mythic tradition, such as modern American 
cultures, cannot assume any mythic form.
The mythic beast represented and the Physical Traits 
of the form must be determined when the vampire first 
learns this ability, and may not be changed at a later 
time. The mythic form adds a total of nine points to 
the character’s Physical Attributes; at least +1 must be 
added to each Physical Attribute. The character also 
gains two Bruised health levels and two Hurt health 
levels. The character’s powers of perception are greatly 
enhanced in the mythic form: The vampire gains the 
effects of the Auspex power Heightened Senses and 
the Protean power Eyes of the Beast upon assuming 
the mythic form, along with the drawbacks associated 
with these powers. While transformed, the character 
retains the ability to speak, although her voice will 
be changed to reflect the nature of the assumed form. 
Finally, the vampire in mythic beast form radiates an 
aura of legendary force that acts as the Presence power 
Awe. Offensive action taken by the vampire nullifies 
the Awe effect as per the standard rules.
The special abilities of the mythic form are subject 
to the Storyteller’s approval, as they can and should 
be dramatic and terrifying. As a guideline, the mythic 
form should have one enhanced movement ability, one 
defensive ability, several close combat attacks, and one 
special power, including ranged attacks. 
Enhanced movement abilities include flight, swim-
ming, running at incredible speeds or even tunneling. 
Armor (3-5 points) is the standard defensive ability, 
but certain mythic creatures may instead be invulner-
able to strictly defined forms of damage (excluding fire, 
sunlight, and Faith). 
Close combat attacks cause aggravated damage at a 
minimum of Strength +2. Having more than one close 
combat attack, such as both claws and teeth, does not 
grant additional combat actions; the vampire must split 
her dice pools normally, or use Celerity.
Ranged attacks cause three levels of aggravated 
damage per blood point spent for the attack. The range 
of such attacks is the vampire’s Stamina x 2, and the 
area of effect is a diameter of her Stamina rating in feet. 
Dexterity + Athletics (difficulty 6) should be rolled to 
hit; extra successes do not add to damage. 
Other special powers, like the mesmerizing ability 
of the sphinx’s riddle game or the purifying power of 
the unicorn’s horn, must be worked out in detail with 
the Storyteller on a case-by-case basis.
Sample Mythic Form: Dragon
+3 Strength, +2 Dexterity, +4 Stamina. Flight at 
normal running movement rate. Three dice of armor 
usable against aggravated damage. Bite and claw attacks 
at Strength +2 aggravated damage. Fiery breath as per 
standard ranged attack above.
MET System: Spend three Blood Traits to acti-
vate this power. The transformation takes three turns; 
you cannot spend extra blood to hasten it, but can act 
without penalty during the process. 
Choose a mythic creature at the time of transforma-
tion; you may only choose one mythic form. You have 
a total of nine bonus Traits to allocate while in mythic 
forum. One of each must go in each of the three categories 
on Laws of the Night, Revised Edition, p. 80: Strength-
related, Dexterity-related and Stamina-related. Each of 
the other six can go into one of those three categories; 
into Miscellaneous Physical-related; into Manipulation-
related or Appearance-related; or into Perception-related 
or Wits-related. You automatically receive two extra 
Bruised health levels and two extra Hurt levels while in 
mythic form, along with the effects of Heightened Senses, 
Eyes of the Beast and Awe. You have a total of three levels 


Clanbook: Gangrel
72
of aggravated damage to inflict in close combat attacks, 
divided between appropriate natural weapons. A single 
massive set of jaws might do three levels, or you might 
choose (for instance) a tail that does two levels and a 
horn that does one level. You can make one ranged at-
tack per turn, with a Physical Challenge to inflict two 
levels of aggravated damage per Blood Point spent. This 
attack has a range in feet equal to your Physical Trait 
total, and covers an area one foot across for every two 
Physical Traits you possess (rounded down). 
For other effects, see the main text.
This power is, to put mildly, huge. A Storyteller 
should think long and hard about the effects of having 
a dragon, thunderbird or dire wolf showing up in game.
Sample Mythical Form: Dragon
Brawny, Tough (Strength-related), Graceful, Quick 
(Dexterity-related), Resilient, Robust (Stamina-related), 
Commanding (Manipulation-related), Alert, Wily (Wits-
related). Flight at normal running movement rate. Three 
levels of armor, usable against aggravated damage. Bite 
and claw attacks for one level of aggravated damage each. 
Fiery breath as per standard ranged attack, given above.
Combination Disciplines
Gangrel elders of considerable age and great talent 
have developed the following abilities that draw on the 
synergy of two Disciplines used in combination. The 
abilities below are often passed from one Gangrel to 
another with absolutely no theoretical underpinnings or 
particular insight into why they work — just like a driver’s 
ed teacher doesn’t need to know how to build a car. The 
elders undoubtedly keep the best tricks to themselves; 
even the most egalitarian Gangrel elder secretly dreads 
the night that his childer come howling for his blood. 
Claw Immunity  
(Animalism ••, Fortitude ••••)
Quite a number of Gangrel even of the higher 
generations have developed the ability to shrug off the 
natural claw and bite attacks of normal animals; this 
is not surprising considering the usefulness of the abil-
ity. Some vampires have claimed that it even provides 
some protection against Lupines in their wolf forms 
— no one has volunteered to go out and field test that 
assertion, however.
System: The player spends two blood points and 
specifies an animal type: wolf, lion, steer, etc. For the 
remainder of the scene, the Gangrel receives extra soak 
dice equal to his Animalism + Fortitude Traits to resist 
damage from the specified animals (these dice are in 
addition to the vampire’s usual Stamina + Fortitude, i.e. 
Fortitude is counted twice). Soaking the bite or claw 
of a wolf-form Lupine may occur, at the Storyteller’s 
discretion, but remember that even in wolf form, those 
creatures are not truly animals.
It costs 18 experience points to learn this power.
MET System: Spend two Blood Traits and specify 
a type of animal: wolf, deer, bear, etc. Double the ef-
fects of Fortitude when soaking damage from that type 
for the next hour. Damage that makes it through these 
and other defenses remains in effect after Claw Immunity 
wears off, without modification.
Flesh Wound  
(Fortitude ••, Obfuscate •••)
This disturbing ability is common among City 
Gangrel of all generations, regardless of the fact that 
Fortitude is no longer a clan Discipline for them. Using 
this power, the Gangrel gives the appearance of taking 
no damage from attacks that hurt like hell. In reality, it 
does hurt like hell, but the Gangrel maintains a façade of 
invulnerability that can do much to unnerve opponents. 
Particularly canny vampires may convince foes that they 
are, in fact, immune to bullets. Using this power in any 
of the Sabbat’s ritae, however, is asking for a beating or 
worse if the pack priest finds out. 
System: The player spends one blood point to activate 
this ability. For the duration of the scene, the Gangrel 
appears as she did when this power was activated; any 
wounds or scars already present remain visible. The visible 
effects of any further damage are mystically omitted from 
the vampire’s appearance — both the wounds themselves, 
and any logical results, such limping or leaking blood. 
This power ends abruptly if the Gangrel reaches the 
incapacitated health level, or is staked.
In addition to seeming unstoppable, the Gangrel 
character receives a -2 difficulty to any Subterfuge-
oriented rolls concerning her physical capabilities.
It costs 15 experience points to acquire this power.
MET System: Spend one Blood Trait. For the next 
hour, no damage you suffers produces a visible result: no 
wounds, no limps from lameness, no fountains of blood 
from inconvenient holes. Characters with Auspex may 
attempt to pierce this with the usual challenge of Auspex 
against Obfuscate (see Laws of the Night, Revised Edition, 
p. 137). Bystanders who see particularly ludicrous lack of 
evidence may attempt a Mental Challenge to see through 
the illusion. While using Flesh Wound, you have a two-Trait 
bonus to Social Tests related to your physical capabilities.
See the Reflected Form  
(Auspex ••••, Protean ••••)
Those Gangrel who are both incredibly perceptive 
and have mastered the most basic full-body change 
become sensitive to the potentiality of shape in others. 
Using this power, the Gangrel may pull detailed informa-
tion from his subject’s aura. He may see the beast forms of 
Gangrel or other vampires using Protean; the progression 


Chapter Two: Inside the Gangrel
73
of forms of the Lupines and other shapechanging beasts; 
the half-real dream forms of fairies; and the forms that 
vampires may assume using Disciplines such as Obtene-
bration, Serpentis and Vicissitude. Skilled practitioners 
may be able to spot such subtle items as which form the 
subject is most comfortable in, or which is her native form. 
A few Gangrel have claimed to see the forms a Gangrel 
childe will assume upon learning Shape of the Beast, or 
even totemic animals in the auras of normal humans.
System: The player rolls Perception + Occult (dif-
ficulty 7). One success gives the character knowledge of 
his subject’s Protean beast forms, or the most powerful 
form assumed using another Discipline or ability. Three 
successes allows the character to see all of his subject’s 
defined forms (if the subject vampire commonly assumes 
a certain body shape using Vicissitude, that will be seen, 
but the fact that he stretched his nose like Pinocchio last 
night will not). Upon reaching five successes, the charac-
ter may see potential forms, or the emotions connected 
with the changes in shape at the Storyteller’s discretion.
This ability may be resisted with Obfuscate in the 
usual Auspex vs. Obfuscate manner. Also, this ability 
does not give any information about the “faces” worn 
by a vampire with Mask of a Thousand Faces — that 
ability clouds the mind, and is not a true shapechange.
It costs 24 experience points to learn this power.
MET System: Make a Mental Challenge. If you 
succeed, you can see the target’s Protean beast forms, 
or the most powerful form the target assumes with some 
other Discipline. You may spend an additional Mental 
Trait to see all of the character’s defined forms, the ones 
regularly adopted regardless of the Discipline used, and 
another Mental Trait to see potential forms and emotions 
connected with the target’s shapechanging. Mask of a 
Thousand Faces is not considered a true shapechange, 
and therefore is not subject to this power.
Beast Meld  
(Animalism •••, Protean ••••• •)
Gangrel this familiar with bestial nature and the 
malleability of form may hide themselves away in the 
beasts of the earth, rather than in the earth itself. The 
vampire does not directly control or possess the animal 
for this period, but the animal will follow certain pre-set 
directions or instructions to the best of its ability. This 
allows the Gangrel remarkable latitude for travel, as the 
animal’s body shields her from the rays of the sun. It is 
also an exceptionally good way to hide; like with Earth 
Meld, the vampire’s essence is suspended mystically, but 
the animal’s essence enshrouds her, making detection 
next to impossible without involved thaumaturgical 
rituals or similarly arcane means.
Some Gangrel put this ability to more violent use in 
setting up ambushes. More than one poacher of exotic 
animals has been sent eternally packing when his fur-
bearing prize disgorged a vengeful vampire.
The animal host chosen by the Gangrel is affected 
by his passenger’s nature. The animal avoids bright light 
where possible, and becomes noticeably bold and aggres-
sive, although it will not frenzy in a vampiric manner. 
Those creatures thst carry Gangrel for decades become 
legendary and may develop supernatural characteristics; 
locals may speak of the puma with eerily glowing eyes, 
or the stag with horns of iron that families have seen 
for generations.
System: The character must choose a suitable ani-
mal vessel to “ride,” one that is large enough to cover at 
least her smallest beast form as a guideline. The player 
spends three blood points and makes a Charisma + Ani-
mal Ken roll (difficulty 6). The interment is automatic, 
and the successes on the roll indicate the vampire’s degree 
of success in communicating his wishes to the animal. 
Three successes are enough to ensure total compliance 
(within the animal’s ability); with only one or two 
successes, the vampire may find herself somewhere she 
didn’t wish to go, only part way to her destination, or 
just plain lost. The animal may be instructed to travel 
to a certain place, to remain in a certain area, or to find 
a person meeting a simple description.
The vampire must also set a condition for emerg-
ing from her animal host, such as “after one week,” 
“when attacked,” or “upon reaching my destination” 
— although the last is dangerous if the Gangrel does 
not establish sufficient rapport with the creature. The 
animal host gains the benefit of his rider’s Fortitude for 
purposes of resisting damage. If, however, the animal 
host is killed by violence, the Gangrel is immediately 
expelled from the body. Animals will not die of old age 
while “ridden” by a vampire, but will expire quickly after 
the vampire’s emergence. The Gangrel does not take 
the damage inflicted on her host unless that damage 
is caused by fire, in which case she may soak with her 
Fortitude as normal. 
The Gangrel continues to spend one blood point 
at sunset as is usual. A vampire who drops into torpor 
due to lack of blood will remain in the animal until 
awakening, unless the animal is violently killed.
This power costs 30 experience points to learn.
MET System: Spend three Blood Traits and make 
a Physical Challenge. If successful, you merge with the 
target animal, which must be at least as large as your 
smallest regular beast form. The animal then behaves 
normally, unless you make specific effort to control it. 
Spend one Mental Trait to give general directions, or two 
Mental Traits to give specific commands. As discussed 
in the main text, you must also specify a condition upon 
which you move out of the Beast Meld.


Clanbook: Gangrel
74


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
75
Beasts 
Among Men
I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is bestial.
— Othello, Act II, Scene iii
Hundreds of Gangrel lurk in the wild lands of the World of Darkness. Here is just a small sampling. 
The 10 characters on the following pages can be used as the basis for players’ characters, if a player wishes to 
use one as such. They can be customized as the player and Storyteller see fit, but currently serve as starting char-
acters. Mind’s Eye Theater conversions are provided for those players who wish to use these template characters 
with the Laws of the Night, Revised Edition rules in live-action Storytelling.


Clanbook: Gangrel
76
Intrepid Explorer
Quote: I’m tellin’ ya, you just can’t know the thrill till 
you’ve been there.
Prelude: You were only 12 when your parents took 
you to see Tutankhamen’s treasures at the National Gallery 
of Art. The grisly details of the mummification process 
made quite an impact on your young mind. What stayed 
with you the longest, though, was the feeling of excite-
ment that you were sure Howard Carter must have felt as 
he uncovered the tomb. Books on Egyptology and, later, 
other wonders of the ancient world littered the floor of 
your bedroom while other kids read about teenage heart-
throbs and sports heroes. Your goal in life was to make 
a great find, a discovery that would shed new light on a 
lost civilization and get your name into the encyclopedia.
Thanks to family finances, though, you weren’t going 
to college. You got a job at an extreme sports outfitter and 
squirreled away gear with your employee discount. When 
you had all the gadgets you needed, you packed it up and 
bought a bus ticket south. Two months of traveling hell 
later, you hit the forests of 
Guatemala and start-
ed looking. It was 
worth all the bug 
bites, fevers 
and near-
starvation 
when you 
set eyes 
on the 
v i n e -
covered 
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Masochist
DEMEANOR: Visionary
CLAN: Gangrel 
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Intrepid Explorer
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Fame
Resources
Retainers
Status
Animalism
Fortitude
ruins of the Mayan temple. You should have 
known there would be a curse; you’d read all the 
books, and the best discoveries always came 
with a price. As you stepped past the threshold, 
the echoes caused by your footsteps amplified into a shrieking 
cacophony — and something stirred in the darkness.
You regained your senses under the starry night sky. You were 
alone, naked and stripped of all your shiny gear. That night, the gamy 
blood of forest creatures sated your terrible hunger. Cowering in 
the shade of makeshift shelters during the day and trekking 
through the forest at night, you finally found your way back 
to the temple. It was months before you could communicate 
with your sire, who spoke only her centuries-old native tongue. 
When she had learned all she cared to about goings-on in the 
world, she set you free to do as you pleased. You couldn’t ask for more 
— it turns out there’s more to discover than you had ever imagined, 
and now you’ve got the ability to do it in style.
Concept: You prefer the physical catharsis of hands-on exploration, 
but discovering your capabilities (and handicaps) will keep you satisfied for 
a time. You hope you find enough vampires back home that someone will be 
interested in all the places and things you intend to dig up — you’re pretty 
sure that Dracula is the only vampire who’s made it into the encyclopedia. 
Roleplaying Hints: You forge tirelessly and enthusiastically ahead 
— the details and fine print are somebody else’s problem. You’re not too 
sure about traveling with other Kindred — there’s rarely enough vitae to go 
around — but it’s nice to have someone to tell stories to when you get back.
Equipment: Sport-utility vehicle that actually leaves the pavement, climb-
ing harness and nylon rope, backpack and survival accouterments, flare gun


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
77
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Intrepid Explorer
Gangrel
13th
Masochist
Visionary
Animalism (Feral Whispers,
Beckoning)
Fortitude (Endurance) 
Allies x 1
Fame x 1
Resources x 2
Retainers x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
Charming
Friendly
Magnetic x 2
Alert
Clever
Knowledgeable
Academic s
Animal Ken x 2
Athletics
Dodge
Survival x 2
Agile
Energetic
Rugged x 2
Tenacious x 2
Tough
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Country Musician
Gangrel
11th
Rogue
Rogue
Fortitude (Endurance) 
Protean (Eyes of the Beast, 
Feral Claws)
Presence (Awe)
Fame x 2
Generation x 2
Resources x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling x 2
Charismatic
Empathetic
Expressive x 2
Seductive
Creative
Insightful
Reflective
Animal Ken
Brawl
Dodge
Enduring
Nimble
Stalwart x 2
Steady
Tough
Drive
Performance
Survival x 2


Clanbook: Gangrel
78
Country Musician
Quote: Sometimes, you just gotta sing what’s in your 
heart. Even if your heart don’t beat no more.
Prelude: You used to joke that you played country 
music because your life story sounded like a country song. 
Raised by a single mother who drove an 18-wheeler, you 
saw most of the country through the passenger window 
before you were eight. When the authorities caught on 
and demanded that you go to school, you had to live with 
your grandparents — which involved no running water, 
farm chores and homework by kerosene lantern light. 
Toss in a fair amount of beer and a few memorable failed 
romances, and you’ve had plenty of material to work with.
At least there was always the music. You had a 
natural flair for the guitar, a smooth voice with just the 
right twang, and a repertoire based on years of country 
radio consumption. You chose to hit the road after 
high school; it was either that or wash dishes for an all-
night diner. For years you had no regrets. You weren’t a 
technically brilliant musician or an inspired songwriter, 
but your instinctive understanding of the mood in the 
bars and clubs you played led to repeat gigs and a 
comfortable enough living for always being on 
the road. You found an agent and hired an old 
flame to help you set up and break down your 
one-man show.
Things got strange one night about 
three years ago. A shaggy, agitated 
fellow with dirt under his fingernails 
requested Patsy Cline’s “Walking After 
Midnight.” To this day, you’re not sure whether 
your instincts damned you or saved you, but the man 
visibly relaxed as you sang and left the bar contented. 
But he came back for your blood, and to give you his. 
You haven’t seen him since.
You’ve managed all right, considering the circumstanc-
es. You’re still touring — it’s the only life you know. You’ve 
light-proofed the van. Fans and groupies are relatively easy 
to feed from, but any mishaps permanently reduce your 
fan base and raise your profile unnecessarily. Your skill at 
crowd handling has only improved, but sometimes you 
wonder why you bother singing to your supper.
Concept: Your wanderlust has only intensified since 
your Embrace, but you’ve started to wonder if maybe 
you’re missing something by sticking to your routine. 
Your cheerful acceptance of the rigors of unlife on the 
road hides a deep fear of what you’ve become, and what 
you might be capable of doing.
Roleplaying Hints: You always put on a 
good face for the audience, 
but at the same time you 
keep a watchful eye on 
the emotions of the 
people around you, and 
you always know where 
the back door is. You 
read the shifting moods of a crowd the way 
a dog scents the wind. You’re disturbed by 
your growing alienation from normal 
people, although you’ve never really 
considered yourself normal. If it 
affects your ability to perform, 
what will you have left?
Equipment: Bat-
tered Collings C-10 
Deluxe guitar, battered 
and half-smoked 
pack of cigarettes, 
battered Stetson, 
battered Chevy 
cargo van
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Rogue
DEMEANOR: Rogue
CLAN: Gangrel 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Country Musician
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Fame
Generation
Resources
Fortitude
Protean
Presence


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
79
Hacker
Quote: Unless you’re running 1,096-bit encryption 
on a secure SQL server, you may as well deposit all of your 
assets into my account. I can hack anything I can reach.
Prelude: Your mouth has always gotten you in trouble. 
Caught up in the excitement of your first hacker bulletin 
board, you claimed to be close personal friends with the 
Legion of Doom. It was difficult to explain to your parents 
why they had to change the family’s telephone number. A 
few years later, the feds paid you a visit after you claimed to 
be able to break into the Treasury Department’s computers 
in a Usenet post. Ironically, your tendency to shoot your 
mouth did force you to become a better hacker; eventually 
you learned how to cover your tracks — most of the time.
Then one day you fed the wrong guy a line. The local 
coffee-shop crowd knew from long experience to take 
your stories with a grain of salt. But the stranger at the 
counter didn’t; and when you told him that you could 
write a program that would incorporate subliminal 
commands into the user’s desktop environment, 
or manipulate the electricity going to his 
household appliances, he believed you. He 
followed you home, dragged you out of bed 
and forced his blood down your throat. You 
spent the last year of high school as a ghoul. 
It didn’t take very long for your regnant to 
figure out that you were full of crap; he 
kicked your ass once to let you know 
not to do it again, but he seemed to 
find your bravado humorous. And 
even though you couldn’t do 
all those things you said, you 
were knowledgeable enough 
to be of use to him. After you 
graduated from college (with 
a computer science degree), he 
made you a vampire.
You barely survived your 
Embrace; your sire stuck you in the 
middle of a national park without even a cell 
phone. When you crawled out of the woods 
a week later, scraped raw and really tired of 
squirrel blood, he dragged you to another 
godforsaken green spot to introduce you to 
all his friends. Your mouth still gets you in 
trouble, but you’ve mastered the art of rolling 
over and showing your throat, which usually 
makes everything okay
Concept: You are ideally suited to the role 
of omega, the bottom of the pecking order. 
You’ve got the skills to make yourself useful in 
ways that the rest of your clan is only begin-
ning to understand, though, and you’re going 
to make sure you use them. When all the other 
creatures of the night finally plug in, they’ll find 
that you’re the top dog.
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conniver
DEMEANOR: Gallant
CLAN: Gangrel 
GENERATION: 10th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Hacker
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Mentor
Resources
Status
Fortitude
Protean
Roleplaying Hints: You 
have a hard time passing up any 
opportunity to embellish your 
reputation, or to make a joke 
at someone’s expense. You 
expect to get your butt kicked 
now and then, and take your 
lumps with good grace. You 
can count on your reputation 
as a wimp to keep you from 
seeming like a threat — at 
least among the Gangrel. 
E q u i p m e n t : 
Gateway laptop on Your:)
Ware lease, Gateway tower 
on Your:)Ware lease, dirty 
clothes, old Saturn coupe


Clanbook: Gangrel
80
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Resources x 2
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Hacker
Gangrel
10th
Conniver
Gallant
Fortitude (Endurance, Mettle) 
Protean (Eyes of the Beast)
Contacts x 2
Generation x 3
Influence (University x 1)
Mentor x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
Ingsatiating
Persuasive
Clever x 2
Cunning
Insightful 
Knowledgeable
Animal Ken
Academics
Computer
Drive
Dexterous
Tireless
Wiry
Security
Survival x 2
Science (Electronics)
Survival
Witty x 2
Observant
Shrewd
Wily
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Retainers x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Field Biologist
Gangrel
12th
Deviant
Pedagogue
Animalism (Feral Whispers,
Beckoning, Quell the Beast) 
Protean (Eyes of the Beast,
Feral Claws)
Fame x 1
Generation x 1
Herd  x 1
Resources x 2
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Eloquent 
Persuasive
Witty
Attentive
Knowledgeable x 2
Intuitive
Observant
Animal Ken x 2
Academics
Science x 2 (Biology)
Dexterous
Energetic
Enduring
Survival x 2
Rational
Vigilant
Ferocious x 2


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
81
Field Biologist
Quote: You can never really know the animals. Trust 
me, I learned the hard way. You can understand them, but 
you can’t know them.
Prelude: For so many, science is cold and sterile, to 
be performed in a laboratory full of stainless steel and 
glass. For you, science is everywhere, but best of all it’s 
outdoors. You put in your time at university, watching 
the rats and rabbits scurry about their cages. You learned 
how to write a grant proposal and how to get your results 
published. When your grants came through, you headed 
for the cold north to study the timber wolves.
Your results were stunning. Such an extensive study of 
the wolves had never been done before; your work broke 
new ground. With the help of a ghostwriter, you published 
the story of your yearlong sojourn with the wolves, and 
later winced as it was poorly dramatized for an 
inspirational Sunday night movie. Your overnight 
celebrity dwindled quickly — you never were 
very telegenic or outgoing — but enough pop 
culture allure stuck to your name to float 
your grant proposals to the top of the stack. 
It was easy to gather funding for another 
year in the forest.
That second trip went all wrong. The 
group of wolves you were observing be-
haved strangely, thwarting your efforts 
with an intelligence you’d never seen 
before. You knew something was very 
wrong when the wolves managed to 
get into your film canisters one night, 
leaving your careful 
evidence to be 
destroyed by 
the rising sun. 
It would have 
been smart to pack 
and leave, but cu-
riosity demanded 
that you stay. 
The next night 
the wolves tore 
your throat out. The 
first rays of the sun woke 
you from your stupor and 
drove you under the snow, 
wrapped in the shredded 
remains of your tent. On the night 
you first brought down a mule 
deer for sustenance, the wolves 
came back. Your sire resumed her 
native form, and explained what you 
had become and what she expected of 
you. In some ways, it’s like being back 
in college, except that your graduate 
advisor drinks blood.
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Deviant
DEMEANOR: Pedagogue
CLAN: Gangrel 
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Field Biologist
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Fame
Generation
Herd
Resources
Retainers
Animalism
Protean
Concept: You had hoped to 
escape the politics of academe 
by working in the field. Now 
you’ve found yourself in even 
deeper waters — the stakes 
here are larger than journal 
bragging rights. For now, 
you direct your research 
to fit political ends. It’s 
not your choice, but 
perhaps the ends jus-
tify the means. 
R o l e p l a y i n g 
Hints: You’re un-
comfortable around 
people who aren’t in-
terested in your work, 
and distrustful of people 
who are. In social situations 
you prefer to err on the side 
of quiet, which allows you 
ample time to examine your 
surroundings and companions 
with a detached eye.
Equipment: Digital video 
camera, numerous notebooks filled 
with observational scrawl, field jacket, 
shoulder pack


Clanbook: Gangrel
82
Drilling Rig Technician
Quote: Wanna go for a swim?
Prelude: The want ad in the Mobile Register made 
the petrochem job sound exciting, even exotic. Plumb 
the briny depths of the ocean in search of black gold, 
like a modern-day pirate with a high-tech ship! You filled 
out an application, passed the physical and a battery of 
mental tests, and signed a contract. When you got to the 
rig, you realized just how full of shit the recruiters were, 
and how legally binding that contract was. The living 
quarters were lousy, the working conditions treacherous 
and no rum or honeys to be found. You were stuck on 
that floating hunk of metal in the Gulf of Mexico; land 
was just a smudge on the horizon on a good day.
Growing up in Alabama, you had always loved the 
warm, friendly waters of the 
Gulf, but your years on the 
rig strained that relation-
ship. Even the hurricane 
you weathered was not 
as bad, though, as the 
sounds and smells that 
came out of the onboard 
research facilities, and 
the disappearances of 
your buddies among the 
crew. The day you came 
out of the mess hall 
to find your bunkmate twisting by his neck from the superstructure was the 
last straw. That night, you dove off the rig’s deck and swam for shore.
You didn’t make it. After what must have been miles of swim-
ming, your limbs gave out, your lungs filled with water and you 
started to sink. That’s when the creature grabbed you, affixing its 
lampreylike mouth to your torso as you bubbled out your last 
dregs of air in a futile scream. Your blood and the creature’s 
filled the water; sharks circled but did not attack as your body 
changed. That very night you returned to the oil rig, lurking 
under its mass through the day, and clambering your way back 
to the deck as the sun set. The shift supervisor and cook disap-
peared that night. Management sent out new want ads.
The thing that saved you from drowning turned out to be all 
right, once you got past its strange fish parts. You spend some time 
together in the Gulf, but it’s got business to attend to and so do you. 
Concept: You take things personally. The oil company got 
the best of you, including your life. You were a nobody then, 
but now you’re something special. Getting revenge is on the top 
of your priorities, then you’ll take the challenges as they come. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’ve been pushed around long enough, 
and you’re not inclined to take orders. You fancy yourself an aquatic 
private eye, fishing for clues and discarding red herrings. Guard your 
motives, even when working with allies — it’s important that your 
revenge is the sweetest.
Equipment: Drill rig security pass, soggy coveralls, heavy cres-
cent wrench, wad of damp cash
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Monster
DEMEANOR: Director
CLAN: (Country)Gangrel
Antitribu
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Drilling Rig
Technician
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Mentor
Animalism
Fortitude
Protean


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
83
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Drilling Rig Technician
Country GangrelAntitribu
13th
Monster
Director
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
Fortitude (Endurance)
Protean (Eyes of the Beast, 
Feral Claws, Earth Meld)
Mentor x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding
Intimidating x 2
Cunning
Determined
Disciplined
Animal Ken x 2
Crafts
Intimidation
Brawny x 2
Ferocious
Lithe
Investigation
Melee x 2
Patient
Wily
Nimble, Robust
Tenatious
Tough
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Eco-Terrorist
City GangrelAntitribu
13th
Enigma
Survivor
Celerity (alacrity)
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows,
Unseen Presence)
Protean (Eyes of the Beast, Feral Claws)
Generation x 2
Herd x 1
Mentor x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding x 2
Magnetic
Alert 
Clever
Disciplined
Observant
Animal Ken
Dodge
Firearms
Agile
Quick x 2
Tireless x 2
Intimidation
Security
Survival x 2
Vigorous
Wiry
Path of the Feral heart
Shrewd


Clanbook: Gangrel
84
Eco-Terrorist
Quote: I’m walking proof that Mother Nature can be a 
stone-cold bitch sometimes.
Prelude: College opened your eyes. You’d led a sheltered 
life of mindless consumerism in your parents’ house, piling 
up a karmic debt of environmentally unsafe packaging in 
a dump somewhere. You never realized what your soda-
guzzling, popcorn-eating, Third-World-sneaker-wearing 
ways were doing to the planet. She changed all that. You 
met her at a kiosk freshman year as she stapled up posters for 
GRAYL, the Gaian Revolutionary Action Youth League. 
She was the most beautiful girl you’d ever seen. You went 
to the meeting. You got a girlfriend and you joined a cause. 
You only wish she’d been the one to make you into what 
you are tonight. She broke up with you when your methods 
got “too violent”; she said you were causing turbulence in 
her aura. You got radical: you spiked redwoods, broke into 
laboratories to free test animals, sniped at whaling ships. 
When you learned that a local chemical plant (internation-
ally owned, of course) was piping runoff into the river, you 
organized an audacious late-night 
strike to disable the plant. You 
would have made headlines and 
wound up behind bars — except 
that you stumbled into the 
middle of a clandestine war.
By the eerie glow of 
chemical fires, you saw human-shaped monsters attack the plant’s heavily armed 
security guards. Your compatriots fled, or were cut down by stray bullets. You were 
rooting for the monsters just like in a Godzilla movie, but the security guards kept 
coming. Operating on autopilot, you crept into the plant while the creatures 
out front drew fire, set up your crude bomb, and ran. 
Not long after the explosion, the monsters caught up to you with 
congratulations. They were also hungry. They argued over your prone 
form and eventually came to a compromise; they drank all your blood, 
but made you a vampire for your bravery under fire. Your sire, a scaled 
and snaggletoothed beast, insisted on packing you off to the wilder-
ness for a couple months, but that was okay by you — The Man 
controlled the cops, and after your exploits they’d be looking for you.
You’ve since learned that your pack wasn’t attacking the 
plant because of the dumping, but because some greasy Ventrue 
owned it. Your buddies may not have any interest in your cause, 
but they’re easy to lure into action with the promise of may-
hem. You’ve learned all about the Antediluvians and Gehenna, 
and you’ve figured out the enemy — global warming. There are 
monsters frozen in the polar ice, after all.…
Concept: The battle hasn’t changed, only the battlefield. To 
save the Cainites, you’ve also got to save the world and the hu-
mans too. Once you can figure out how to keep your allies under 
control, you’ll have a force to make Greenpeace green with envy. 
Roleplaying Hints: You don’t make people do what you 
want; you lead and make them want to follow. You know 
there’ll be some detours on the way to achieving your goals, 
but your environmental causes are never far from your mind.
Equipment: Ski cap, ski jacket, backpack full of shotgun 
shells and tree spikes, pepper spray
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Enigma
DEMEANOR: Survivor
CLAN: (City)Gangrel
Antitribu
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Eco-Terrorist
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Herd
Mentor
Sabbat Status
Celerity
Obfuscate
Protean
Feral Heart


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
85
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Architecht
DEMEANOR: Director
CLAN: (Country)Gangrel
Antitribu
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Industry Lobbyist
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Contacts
Generation
Herd
Influence
Resources
Sabbat Status
Fortitude
Protean
Industry Lobbyist
Quote: I’m sure we can cut a deal that’ll make us 
both happy.
Prelude: You were raised in a logging town, surrounded 
by loggers, sawmills, carpenters and paper mills. The smell 
of fresh-sawed wood still brings back fond memories. The 
smells of patchouli and cheap incense bring back memories 
too, but not good ones. Those remind you of the hippy 
tree-huggers who mobbed your small town, shutting down 
logging operations and putting dozens of your neighbors and 
relatives out of work. Your stories of childhood deprivation 
served well in your job at CRURR, the Coalition for the 
Responsible Use of Renewable Resources — not a single 
Congressman kept a dry eye through your recounting of 
the Christmas without presents or a tree thanks to the 
unwashed liberal protesters. You were proud to play a part 
in overturning logging restrictions and opening up new 
lands for timber harvesting.
Your parents were proud of you, but someone 
else disapproved. One night that someone 
broke into your tony Washington apartment, 
tied you up and stuffed you in his trunk, 
ranting all the while about teaching you 
a lesson. The next night, in the middle of 
a clear-cut forest of stumps, he feasted on 
your blood and filled your throat with his. 
Flush with the success of his “revenge,” he 
left you staring up at the sky. The field he 
abandoned you in was a poor example 
of forest husbandry, certainly, 
but you couldn’t figure out 
why some company’s 
sloppy cutting prac-
tices were your fault 
— and you still can’t. 
You spent your days 
under heavy piles of 
pine branches until 
you found a road 
and hitchhiked 
your way back to 
civilization. You 
were back at your 
desk by the next 
Monday night, re-
scheduling your 
lunch dates in 
favor of dinners 
and drinks. Wash-
ington is a wonderful 
place to be dead, 
as long as you have 
money and access to 
the halls of power.
You’ve been told 
you’re a member of the 
Sabbat, and you’ve been assigned to a 
“pack.” So far your participation has been 
limited to loaning money and crash space 
to sectmates in need. You keep careful 
track of who owes whom, though, and 
your notebook is full of favors you’re 
ready to call in when it suits you.
Concept: You’re interested 
in the natural world — how 
it can best be made to serve 
humanity, and now, you. It 
occasionally pains you that 
some unscrupulous practices 
fall under your protective 
umbrella, but you can’t 
make an omelet without 
breaking some eggs. 
R o l e p l a y i n g 
Hints: You’re honestly 
offended when your 
motives are questioned. 
You have the greater 
good of the group at 
heart, whether that group is 
Cainites, loggers or Congress-
men running for reelection.
Equipment: Lincoln 
Continental, Dayrunner note-
book, PCS phone, credit cards


Clanbook: Gangrel
86
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Industry Lobbyist
Country GangrelAntitribu
12th
Architecht
Director
Fortitude (Endurance, Mettle,
Resilience)
Protean (Eyes of the Beast)
Allies x 1
Contacts x 4
Generation x 1
Herd x 2
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Charming x 2
Diplomatic
Insightful x 2
Dedicated
Disciplined
Knowledgeable
Animal Ken
Academics
Finance
Gracefull
 Resilient
Steady
Influence
(Political x 2,
Industry x 2)
Resources x 3
Law,  Politics
Subterfuge
Survival
Eloquent
Expressive
Ingratiating
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
New Age Viking
Gangrel
12th
Celebrant
Bon Vivant
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
Fortitude (Endurance)
Allies x 2
Generation x 1
Herd x 4
Mentor x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Friendly x 2
Genial
Clever
Dedicated
Determined
Animal Ken
Athletics
Brawl
Brawny x 2
Dexterous
Energetic x 2
Resources x 2
Dodge
Streetwise
Survival x 2
Gorgeous
Quick
Rugged
Tough


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
87
New Age Viking
Quote: Blood for the blood god, dude, blood for the 
blood god!
Prelude: Your life was cool. Mom and Dad moved 
to California and got into attachment parenting and 
other primitive child-rearing practices, so you got to do 
whatever you wanted. The teachers at school didn’t want 
to damage your self-esteem by flunking you, so made 
it all the way to 10th grade before you decided to drop 
out and surf full-time. You were young, blond and tan, 
and that was all you needed to be happy.
Then you met the woman of your dreams. You 
had gone to an interfaith pagan sabbat with your 
parents; it always made them happy when you 
joined the circle, even though they knew 
you were a lapsed pagan at best. She 
stood out among the Wiccans, Druids 
and Unitarians, tall and proud like 
the carved prow of a ship. You joined 
the crowd of men and women around 
her, listening raptly as she spoke of 
honor, courage and struggle in an 
exotic accent. Your parents’ paganism 
had always seemed so empty 
and bloodless; she assured 
you that in her religion, 
there was plenty of 
blood. As the night 
wore on and the crowd 
thinned, you got to talk 
to her personally. She 
didn’t understand 
what “surfing” meant, 
but when you said you 
rode the waves, the 
gleam in her eye was 
unmistakable. When 
you left with her that 
night, you thought 
you were going to get 
lucky. You had no idea. 
You thought the horned 
helmets and her three 
friends were just kinky, but 
after they kicked your ass 
you couldn’t move for days.
So now you’re, like, a 
vampire. More importantly, 
she’s teaching you to be a 
Viking. She was kind of disap-
pointed when she learned you 
didn’t actually have a boat, but she assures 
you that when she has a crew ready, 
she’ll find one. You’ve had to leave 
your board, since the waves suck after 
sundown, but you keep busy with axe 
and shield training and Norwegian 
lessons. Monterey looks like a good 
place to go a-Viking.
Concept: Everything in life 
fell your way, and now you’ve been 
given the opportunity to fight in the 
greatest battle at the end of time by 
the most gorgeous woman you’ve 
ever seen. What could be better?
Roleplaying Hints: No wave 
is too big, no enemy too fierce. You 
throw yourself into your new role, 
partying, boasting and brawling 
with spirit. You know you’re not 
the sharpest knife in the drawer, 
but that’s okay. Your job isn’t to 
think too much.
Equipment: Two automatic 
pistols, driftwood stakes, sun-
glasses, ultra-casual surf clothes
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Celebrant
DEMEANOR: Bon Vivant
CLAN: Gangrel 
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: New Age Viking
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Generation
Herd
Mentor
Resources
Animalism
Fortitude


Clanbook: Gangrel
88
Provincial Scourge
Quote: It’ll hurt less if you quit squirmin’, you stupid 
sumbitch.
Prelude: Mama always said you were a little high-
strung. Not your fault. You tried to calm down — ain’t 
no one can tell you you didn’t try, dammit — but it just 
wouldn’t happen. Went to school, got a job, did all the 
shit you’re s’posed to. Kept gettin’ fired. Kept gettin’ in 
fights. Fought with the boss. Fought with that dumbass 
TV repairman. Fought with the preacher, even. Not too 
proud of that one.
Weren’t even regular fights, sad to say. Sometimes 
you were drunk. Other times it weren’t even you who 
started it — some fool who crawled up your tailpipe got 
what he deserved and that’s that. Ended up bouncin’ at 
the stripper bar over on Highway 50. Never could bring 
yourself to strike a woman, which was prob’ly your saving 
grace in that job. Kicked a lot of trucker ass, though. Heh.
Funny how you never see some things comin’. Got 
in one fight too many there in the strip bar. Last one 
was nasty. Lost a lot of skin. Grows back, though, ‘least 
it does now. That guy was bad news. Made you into a 
damn vampire. Brought you into some political 
bullshit, now you gotta work for the vampire 
king or some crapola and he’s out there 
howlin’ across the plains. King’s work 
ain’t bad, though. You know, if you gotta 
be stuck doin’ somethin’ you may as well 
get your kicks from it.
Concept: Rather than destroying you, 
the prince spared your unlife in exchange for 
you undertaking a certain responsibility. He 
made you the scourge. Now, you thin the ranks 
of the Kindred, culling the thin-blooded from 
the herd. It all makes sense to you — you allevi-
ate the overpopulation and it keeps the prince 
from worrying about some deranged prophecy. 
Whatever, at least it’s not you meeting the Final 
Death. Apparently, princes have that right.
Roleplaying Hints: You are a coward and 
a bully, thankful for your position because it 
allows you to victimize those weaker than 
you. Anyone stronger than you earns your 
resentment immediately. Anyone strong 
enough to kill you earns your grudging 
respect. You get along with some folks, 
like this coterie thing, but most people 
are simply there for you to push around 
or hurt. Or, in some cases, kill. Hey, it’s 
the hand God dealt ya.
Equipment: Boots with razors taped 
to the heels, the watch daddy gave you, 
pocketknife with a blade an inch over 
the legal limit, Chevy pickup
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Sadist
DEMEANOR: Bravo
CLAN: Gangrel 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Provincial Scourge
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
_______________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Mentor
Resources
Status
Fortitude
Protean
Potence


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
89
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Provincial Scourge
Gangrel
11th
Sadist
Bravo
Fortitude (Endurance)
Protean (eyes of the Beast, 
Feral Claws)
Potence (Prowess)
Contacts x 1
Generation x 2
Influence (Street x 1)
Mentor x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Intimidating x 3
Alert
Attentive
Intuitive
Shrewd
Animal Ken
Brawl, Dodge
Intimidation
Brawny
Ferocious x 2
Quick
Resources x 2
Melee
Streetwise
Survival
Robust
Rugged
Tough x 2
Wily
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
S
- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Chupacabra
Gangrel
8th
Child
Deviant
Animalism (Feral Whispers,
Beckoning)
Protean (Eyes of theBeast ,
 Feral Claws, Earth Meld)
Generation x 5
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Alluring
Charismatic
Friendly
Patient
Alert
Attentive
Intuitive x 2
Patient
Animal Ken x 2
Brawl
Occult
Agile 
Energetic
Enduring x 2
Stealth
Survival x 2
Rugged
Tenacious 
Wiry


Clanbook: Gangrel
90
Chupacabra
Quote: …Sangre… desea sangre…
Prelude: Tales of the blood-sucking devils always plagued your town. Farmers never left their goats outside; 
parents sent their children to bed before night had fully fallen. The marauding blood-drinkers had terrified the town 
for so long, it had finally begun to die — no one ever came there, and people were too afraid of the monsters to try 
to flee. Night after night, the entire population cowered in its shanty houses and prayed for the first rays of the sun.
Of course, no one had ever seen the monsters up close. It’s not that the chupacabra would murder people in their 
homes, but they would certainly drink dry rats, cats and anything else left outside after dark. Every now and then a 
drifter would disappear without a trace, but no one doubted that his blood fed the beasts just past the porch lights.
One night, you stayed too long at the market, even as the proprietress hurried you out. Out of the shadows, 
the creature dragged you down, gorged itself on your blood — and then dragged you into its wretched unlife. It 
was lonely, it said, but you knew within a few nights that the two of you could not stay together — it was too 
monstrous, you couldn’t relate. You lacked the conviction to step into the next sunrise, so you fled.
And so it has been since then, fleeing, hiding and fleeing again when your “hosts” raise their rifles and pitchforks against you.
Concept: You are the night-monster, more afraid of yourself than even the terrorized others are of you. Unlife 
is a vagabond ritual; you’re just going through the motions and following your urge. Every now and then, you 
remember some bit of what your life used to be, but those memories fade as the hunger 
burns in your dead belly. All you want is blood, anymore — and the more blood, 
the better. In fact, you might even take it from a person sometime soon.
Roleplaying Hints: Only with the greatest effort can you be social, and 
that becomes more difficult with each passing night. You don’t hate the other 
chupacabra, you just don’t relate to them. Every now and then you fall in 
with a pack of them, but rarely for any length of time — your solitary 
nature drives you to leave the pack and hunt on your own.
Equipment: Filthy tatters of the clothes in which you were 
Embraced, random bones and feathers
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Child
DEMEANOR: Deviant
CLAN: Gangrel 
GENERATION: 8th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Chupacabra
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
_______________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Animalism
Protean


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
91
Outlanders  
of Note 
The following Gangrel might be encountered by 
any group of player characters in an ordinary chronicle; 
each of them can fit into several slots, and should be 
customized to fit a given chronicle. Perhaps it fits the 
Storyteller’s needs for Ramona to be a male, or for Mark 
Decker to have become prince of Chicago. Storytellers are 
encouraged to make such changes as best fit their games.
Some of these characters are shown in greater detail in 
Children of the Night; their descriptions here are intended 
primarily to introduce them and give an idea of their activity 
since the release of that book. Storytellers are encouraged 
to use any of the following characters in whatever fashion 
seems most appropriate, giving them Traits as necessary. 
Players might wish to tie their characters’ backgrounds to 
such potent individuals; they should be sure to consult 
with their local Storyteller before doing so.
Beckett
The Gangrel explorer/historian who calls himself 
Beckett does his best to remain an enigma. He is a Noddist 
in the truest sense of the word. Though he does not follow 
the Sabbat’s Path of Caine, his driving goal is to determine 
the true history of the Kindred race, and especially the 
early history of Caine and the Antediluvians in Enoch. 
Forces ranging from the impersonal and destructive hand 
of entropy to the very personal vampires of the Sabbat and 
Camarilla conspire to keep him from learning the truth, 
as he sees it. Therefore he attempts to avoid vampiric 
conflict where possible, preferring only to face the sorts 
of problems that mortal archaeologists must confront. He 
has had moderate success with this, for surely not every 
vampire of the Sabbat and Camarilla is arrayed against him. 
By most accounts, Beckett is an elder — perhaps three 
centuries dead — but he possesses a pragmatic attitude 
toward the Camarilla and Sabbat that is more frequently 
seen among only those Kindred who predate the existence 
of both sects. Rumors abound that Beckett is very old 
indeed but has undergone something of a revival in the 
last 300 years, perhaps adopting the “Beckett” identity at 
that time. Beckett has, in his fashion, been an independent 
Gangrel since well before Xaviar’s recent proclamation. He 
was one of the primary commentators on a short print run 
Book of Nod put together partly by his sometime mentor 
Aristotle de Laurent back in 1992. In that book, Beckett 
was the first to publicly suggest that the Caine legend was 
simply a myth representing historical conflict between 
nomadic hunter-gatherers and the first agricultural people. 
He suggested that “Caine” was nothing more than the 
impersonal force driving humanity to cultivate fields to 
better sustain a large population, and that force was the 
blow that killed “Abel,” the archetypal wandering herder. 
How such a thing would create vampirism is unclear.
Beckett has a dry sense of humor that suits him well 
in dealing with the immortal undead; during many con-
versations, only his closest friends would recognize that he 
sprinkles quiet, personal jokes throughout his questions 
and responses. Truly elder vampires often miss the humor 
in his statements, or choose to ignore such trivialities. 
Beckett’s wit is easily turned on his enemies; it is a simple 
thing for him to rile an opponent to berserk fury.
Beckett and the Sabbat priscus Sascha Vykos have 
fought repeatedly since the Gangrel’s Embrace. These 
conflicts have earned Beckett a reputation of being very 
difficult to kill; indeed, one story says that he escaped his foe 
during a daytime battle by dashing across a hundred yards 
of sunlight to safety. The nature of Beckett’s conflict with 
Vykos is not clear to most Kindred, but it is clear that the 
two have often sought the same Noddist artifacts. Of course, 
neither shows a particular willingness to share such toys.
Beckett’s closest allies are the independent pair 
Lucita and Anatole. Lucita, a Lasombra antitribu assas-
sin, shows a curious platonic love for the Malkavian 
prophet Anatole; the three have worked together in 
the past to learn the true nature of the Antediluvians 
and forestall the coming Gehenna.
Brunhilde
Brunhilde remembers little of her mortal life; she 
was the daughter of a Viking chieftain and respected for 
her own strength and courage. She no longer remembers 
the sun. Even her Embrace more than a millennium ago 
is a blurred memory here in the Final Nights. Her sire is 
a mystery; she knows only that it was not the All-High. 
Her sire paid his fealty to the All-High, and Brunhilde 
needed no supernatural compulsion to do the same. She 
walked among the vargr of the far north, taking the role 
the All-High gave her and her packsisters. They acted 
as Waelkyrige, the Choosers of the Slain, who picked 
the finest warriors to join them in the afterlife.
Brunhilde fought the Christians when they came 
north. For more than two centuries, with her liege-lord 
and comrades falling to torpor or Final Death all around 
her, the Gangrel ambushed southern vampires and scat-
tered their ashes as warning to the invaders’ brethren. 
But it did no good. Eventually, Brunhilde herself fell 
into a wearied torpor, not rousing until the First World 
War. She gathered her remaining Waelkyrige to her in 
central Sweden, where they kept a low profile for decades.
One cold winter night in 1977, the Choosers of the 
Slain found their greatest hope and fear come true. Only 
an hour after sundown, one of Brunhilde’s sisters reported 
that a coterie of Camarilla Kindred a few miles from 
the Waelkyriges’ haven had made a gruesome discovery. 
A pack of six werewolves had been drained of blood 


Clanbook: Gangrel
92
and left to freeze solid on the icy plain. On a hunch, 
Brunhilde became a raven and flew to the cave in which 
the All-High’s icy form had rested for hundreds of years.
There she found the ice a little thicker on the 
ground, and the All-High’s great ice cairn melted away. 
The Methuselah himself lay torpid on bare stone, where 
once the block of ice had rested. Fresh blood flecked his 
beard, but the elder Kindred did not move or respond to 
speech or touch. The All-High did not move again for five 
years; in 1982 he similarly devoured a group of what the 
Waelkyrige describe as “Wild Ones.” He has not budged 
since, but since a particularly vivid dream of Ragnarok 
last summer, Brunhilde has spent her days in the ancient’s 
cave, close — but not too close — to her liege.
In 1986 Brunhilde took the life of Swedish Prime 
Minister Olaf Palme. This is not rumor; it is fact that 
the Waelkyriges’ leader gladly admits — she claims his 
blood tasted rather bitter. However, Brunhilde is unwill-
ing to discuss her motives for the killing. Her packsisters 
believe that Brunhilde killed the Prime Minister either 
to declare her return to activity to the collective princes 
of Scandinavia, or she was nudged into doing so by the 
torpid All-High. 
Since her dreams of Ragnarok, Brunhilde has be-
come more curious about the state of the world at large. 
To satisfy some of this curiosity, she recently sent four of 
her youngest packsisters to California, the Anarch Free 
State. The young vampires of California have as little 
regard for the bureaucrats of the Camarilla as Brunhilde 
and her sisters do, and she considers the area to be a 
potentially prime recruiting ground.
The Waelkyrige recruiting movement among the 
anarchs has recently seen some resistance; it seems 
that the former Justicar Xaviar also desires the aid of 
the independent members of his clan. Representatives 
of each group play to the anarchs’ desires as best they 
can. Certainly four blonde, Nordic warrior women can 
make quite an impression on newly Embraced men of 
the clan, but their description of unlife on the high 
seas, and honor and service to a higher cause, has risen 
to the attention of more than one anarch. It remains 
only a matter of time before that pitch comes to the 
attention of Xaviar’s group.
In the meantime, the Waelkyrige in Europe have made 
it powerfully clear to the princes of the north that they 
have no interest in any sectarian politics, nor in joining 
the circus they call the Camarilla. That is not to say that 
they desire any allegiance with the Sabbat, which is clearly 
a collection of dishonorable monsters. For the time being, 
Brunhilde watches the vampires of the world scramble 
around in response to her. Decisive action can wait.
(For more information and Traits for Brunhilde, see 
Children of the Night, p. 80.)
Inyanga
Inyanga is truly ancient; Embraced by a Roman 
expatriate just after the Ostrogoths’ sacking of that city, 
she has championed the cause of the mortals underfoot in 
what Kindred too often see as their world for more than a 
milllennium. Inyanga has been active in the Great Lakes 
area of North America since emerging from torpor in the 
late 18th century. She travels regularly, throughout both 
North and South America, but of late has concentrated 
her attention on Chicago and Milwaukee.
In the years after her Embrace, Inyanga walked 
the wild parts of the world. She had no kinship with 
the shapechangers of Africa or the wilds of Europe, of 
course, but she was wise and fleet of foot, and she had 
an edge that many Cainites of her clan lacked. In life 
she’d learned a ritual to become a living leopard. That 
ability got Inyanga out of one nascent conflict with 
cat-changers, as she convinced them that a vampire 
that could become a living being couldn’t be entirely 
cursed by their earth and sun gods.
She spent her first centuries in Africa, where 
she met the secretive Kindred known as Laibon who 
populate Africa’s great cities. In the modern nights she 
maintains contact with only a few of them; most of her 
contemporaries have long since returned to the earth 
from which they sprang. She traveled into Europe only a 
few times during her first millennium; she felt European 
Cainites’ distrust almost palpably and recoiled from it. 
She had nothing to do with the Camarilla, and indeed 
was ignorant of it for several decades. Inyanga challenged 
a monstrous Malkavian along the Ivory Coast in 1537; 
though she was victorious, she fell into a long torpor.
When she awoke, Inyanga was in Baltimore; her 
vast hunger caused her to kill several mortals before 
regaining her senses. She fled westward, to the growing 
city of Chicago, where she helped found a relatively 
independent Kindred stronghold. She saw her share of 
conflicts with the other Cainites of Chicago, but her 
tendency to travel far and wide left her out of the most 
vicious Cainite politics of the city.
Inyanga was away from Chicago when the horde 
of Lupines descended. Some preternatural sense had 
warned her of impending danger, and she took that op-
portunity to roam the Great Plains once again. When 
she returned she found chaos. Prince Lodin had met 
Final Death, torn limb from limb by enraged Lupines. A 
dozen others all competed for his title, and she refused 
to support any of them. The contenders saw the great 
city Lodin had built as a jewel; they did not see the 
labor and sacrifice required of the now-destroyed prince.
Inyanga had never particularly championed the 
Camarilla. It is a European organization, and one in 
which Africans are not well-represented. Additionally, 


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
93
due to the circumstances of her Embrace, Inyanga has 
always tried to keep the best interests of mortal humanity 
in the front of her mind. While she understands that 
the Masquerade helps protect Kindred from kine, she 
knows full well that the Camarilla uses the Masquerade 
to dominate and abuse humanity.
When Xaviar approached Inyanga to describe the 
creature he had seen and explain why he had chosen to 
leave his post as justicar, he found an interested ear and 
a tentative ally. Inyanga took her leave of the Chicago 
primogen quietly. Of that group only the Nosferatu Khalid 
knows that she has left the sect, while the others imagine 
that she has undertaken another tour of the Americas, 
and go about their business. The Gangrel of Chicago are 
aware that Inyanga has left the Camarilla, though she left 
them to make their own decisions in that regard. The Wolf 
Pack coterie remains staunchly part of the Camarilla; most 
others in the city have chosen the independent’s path.
(For more information on Inyanga, see Chicago by 
Night, Second Edition, reprinted in Chicago Chron-
icles, Volume 2.)
Jalan-Aajav
Aajav-Khan, as his subordinates call him, is a po-
tent warlord of the Sabbat. At massive gatherings of 
the sect, he tells of the ancient nights, when he rode 
with Temujin-called-Genghis-Khan. It does not take 
long before such stories bring even the most boisterous 
Sabbat packs to awed silence.
Aajav-Khan’s aura is not merely streaked with the 
spidery black lines of diablerie — it is black, mottled by 
patches of color. He has committed diablerie dozens of 
times throughout his unlife, starting with his own sire 
in nights long past, and continuing through vampiric 
enemies of all sorts. Perhaps obviously, the Seraph has 
not restricted his Amaranth to enemies of greater power. 
The horrid ecstasy of consuming another vampire’s 
soul is too great to avoid simply because a foe might be 
further removed from Caine than he is.
Only half a dozen members of the Sabbat rival Jalan-
Aajav in terms of raw power, and politically only the 
regent has more authority. He is steadfastly loyal to the 
sect, and appears willing to sacrifice his unlife to defeat 
the blasphemous Antediluvians. He has been a part of 
the Sabbat since before its members called themselves 
Sabbat; he was loyal to Lugoj’s ideals throughout the 
Anarch Revolt and to the Sicilian Lasombra as they 
spilled their progenitor’s unholy vitae.
Although his activity goes unquestioned by other 
vampires, occasionally Jalan-Aajav does drop out of sight 
for years at a time. Few other members of the Sword of 
Caine would even mention such a thing in passing, but 
when the subject does come up, Jalan-Aajav refers to 
“hunting expeditions,” torpor and the “need to roam.” 
The eldest vampires of the Sabbat might mention that 
the Seraph has always felt such urges, but then, they’re 
never asked about such things, and freely acknowledge 
that any vampire of such advanced age has foibles.
Aajav-Khan knows more than a few secrets from 
the Sabbat at large. Chief among them is that he knew 
the nature of the manus nigrum, the so-called True Black 
Hand. And he knows that the manus nigrum is no longer 
a power among Cainites. They have been decimated, 
their power base destroyed and their morale sapped. 
The members of the Black Hand whom Jalan-Aajav 
has come across in recent months have been hollow 
shells of themselves; former glory echoes inside their 
corpses, with little of the old fire to spur them onward. 
Currently, Jalan-Aajav works with the other Sabbat 
Black Hand Seraphs to coordinate a massive push against 
Camarilla holdings across the United States. Recent 
activity in the Southeast has been moderately successful; 
Jalan-Aajav urges his fellow Seraphs to agree to a plan 
centered on the scuttling of Chicago, after which the 
other cities of the north central US should be relatively 
obtainable targets. For the time being, this plan centers on 
the activity of Philippe Rigaud, a Gangrel agent already 
in Chicago. Rigaud was successful in provoking a Lupine 
attack on the city, but disagreement between the various 
Seraphs of the Black Hand made it impossible to take 
advantage of Chicago’s chaos and strike decisively there.
(For more information and Traits for Jalan-Aajav, 
see Children of the Night, p. 9.)
Karsh
Karsh tells those few who he trusts that he was a 
citizen of the Ottoman Empire some eight centuries ago. 
He was a great general in life, though perhaps a bit too 
headstrong. His sire was a wild spirit, a wolf of the desert 
sands; Karsh rarely speaks of him. Karsh is something of 
a rarity among Camarilla Kindred. He follows the Path 
of the Feral Heart rather than the Path of Humanity. 
He makes no apology for this; Karsh is older than the 
Camarilla itself, and would not abandon his moral code 
simply because some self-important Toreador insisted that 
Kindred should conceal themselves among humankind. 
Over the centuries, those few who dared raise a hand 
against him found example made of themselves as they 
were left as piles of ashes on a riverbank. No Camarilla 
vampire has challenged Karsh in this way in centuries.
Karsh was one of the first Gangrel to pledge his 
allegiance to the Ventrue Hardestadt’s nascent Cama-
rilla in the mid-15th century. Only Milov Petrenkov 
is notable as having come to the group earlier. Karsh’s 
presence and stern demeanor won over several elder 
Gangrel during the sect’s formative years; his tactical 
prowess won over at least a few others.


Clanbook: Gangrel
94
Karsh is a vampire of few words. His true motiva-
tions are often a mystery even to those who consider 
him a close ally. He is an honorable creature; he does not 
use assassins, nor does he strike at his enemies through 
surprise. Karsh is a master of small-group tactics, how-
ever, and is willing to use whatever advantages present 
themselves in close combat. Karsh’s directions have led 
the Camarilla to esttablish themselves in several Sabbat 
cities over the last 10 years, and more than one of those 
was recaptured without a single gunshot or sword thrust. 
Karsh has personally overseen the direction of 
those former archons serving under Xaviar who did not 
leave their posts when Xaviar departed. Those archons 
have been split up; they do not serve as a single group, 
for what should be obvious reasons. Karsh uses those 
archons for non-critical research and investigation. 
Other Kindred attend him when he comes into conflict 
with Sabbat targets.
Although Karsh and Xaviar were never close, the 
Warlord now refuses to speak of the former justicar. For 
Karsh, it is as though Elijah was the last justicar of Clan 
Gangrel. He considers Xaviar to be a traitor to the Inner 
Council — Karsh has made it clear to Gangrel who remain 
part of the Camarilla that any tales that filter back into 
Camarilla cities of Xaviar’s brush with vast power are 
nothing more than the cries of schoolchildren. He seems 
to believe that Xaviar fled the Camarilla out of irrational 
fear, and in so doing weakened the sect’s foundation. 
Karsh’s archons recently began to infiltrate Xaviar’s 
“independent Gangrel” movement. Xaviar has powers 
to read a Kindred soul, but Karsh’s spies can hide their 
true motives from even such a deep reading. Or so they 
hope — Xaviar seems to have adopted them into his 
group and has given them assignments for the time being.
(For more information and Traits for Karsh, see 
Children of the Night, p. 67.)
Xaviar
Xavier de Calais was a warrior in the Hundred Years’ 
War. His valor in service of the English crown earned 
him a knighthood and his boldness on the field earned 
him the Embrace of Rhun the Minstrel, a Gangrel 
ancient of some repute. Rhun abandoned the fledgling 
“Xaviar,” as is often the Gangrel way. After too many 
nights and corpses spent mastering his primal urges for 
blood and darkness, Xaviar headed north into the wastes 
of Scandinavia. There he hunted men and beasts for 
more than a century; most of the bestial features of his 
current visage date back to this wild time.
Eventually, Xaviar returned to civilized lands; he 
learned of the Camarilla and its Masquerade, and, ap-
proving of the latter, joined the former. He quickly rose 
in its ranks, gaining a wide reputation as a fearsome 
sergeant of Kindred. In 1704, in America, Xaviar pre-
sented the Inner Council with the remains of his mad 
late clanbrother, the former Justicar Elijah. With this, 
Xaviar became the last Gangrel justicar. 
Xaviar knows better than any other Cainite that 
the get of Caine have truly entered the Final Nights. Of 
the seven justicars of the Camarilla, he was ostensibly 
the best-traveled. Certainly the other six went from city 
to city when events called for it, but for the most part 
they stayed in their home cities, cowing the resident 
princes into quiet near-inactivity while they coordinated 
the actions of archons across four continents. Xaviar 
traveled — and he still does.
So it was Xaviar who first heard reports of the 
disaster in Kashmir, and it was Xaviar who faced the 
bearer of an obscenely powerful artifact in upstate New 
York. Perhaps unfortunately, it was Xaviar who fled this 
last challenge. And — so the rumors have it — it was 
Xaviar who encountered something else in the warm 
New England nights. Something ancient beyond words; 
something that scared him.
Of course, those are just rumors. All the average 
Gangrel knows for certain is that Xaviar went to the 
Inner Council of the Camarilla and demanded some-
thing. When his demand was not met, he resigned his 
posting as justicar and vowed that his clan would no 
longer walk with the other six. Was there no Gangrel 
representative on the Inner Council, someone who 
might countermand such a proclamation? Apparently 
not, unless one counts Warlord Karsh, for he alone stood 
forth to contradict Xaviar’s announcement. The harpies 
have a dozen questions and a hundred answers, but the 
Inner Council is not known for its proclivity to gossip. 
Xaviar and Karsh most certainly hate each other now; 
each speaks of the other as being a traitor.
Xaviar is confident that the Antediluvians of myth 
exist, and that some of them may once again stalk the 
nighttime world. To this end, he has attempted to sway 
any Gangrel who approach him openly and honestly — 
if they stand outside the great sects of Kindred society. 
He has no love for either Kindred who hide behind the 
Camarilla nor monsters of the Sabbat. Once again he 
acts as sergeant, coordinating packs of Gangrel who stand 
by his cause. He insists that they remain mobile, for a 
moving vampire is a harder meal for the Antediluvians 
than one who remains in the city, and he periodically 
requires them to provide “scouting reports” of territory 
through which they have recently passed. 
Slowly, Xaviar has amassed an enormous database 
of supernatural activity. Of course, this database is only 
in his head; Xaviar wouldn’t know a computer if an 
enemy dropped one on him. But he spends hours each 
night attempting to correlate disparate reports from 
packs under his command. 


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
95
The truth, which loyal packs rarely discuss even 
among themselves, is that Xaviar may be simply obses-
sive and paranoid. Something terrified him once, and 
he builds an army to defend himself from it. Or, more 
frighteningly, this is all a ruse. Xaviar is building an army; 
it may not be to find the Antediluvians and defend the 
world from them. It might just be that Xaviar decided 
he wanted an army.
(For information and Traits for Xaviar, see Children 
of the Night, p. 91.)
happened fast, and quickly snowballed out of control. 
She saw, stalked, saved, almost killed, then buried a 
beautiful young girl, Zhavon. A mysterious stranger, 
Tanner, followed Ramona from Los Angeles to New 
York, saving her from the Sabbat, the sun and a stake. 
And worst, the monster, human-shaped but for that 
ichor-dripping eye, who tied the whole mess of them 
together in a flesh-colored knot. The monster stole 
Zhavon, and warped and destroyed Jen and Darnell.
Tanner called the Gangrel together, and suddenly 
Ramona had a clan and a sire, a father and a family who 
expected her to know her place and listen to directions. 
There was even a grandfather, Xaviar, who treated Tan-
ner like Tanner treated her. 
It didn’t last long, though — the monster with 
the eye destroyed most of the assembled pack, leaving 
Ramona, the whelp, to drag the crippled Xaviar away 
from the fire and blood. Ramona remembers this last, 
the destruction of her newfound clanmates, with a 
horrifying clarity. She bears a gift from the Cherokee 
medicine man, Blackfeather, and the curse of his pre-
diction of the future: “The Final Nights are at hand, 
and your road will be a difficult one.” The ghost sight 
he pressed into her burned images of the lost and the 
chant of their names into her brain.
Ramona ran, from the creature with the eye, from 
Xaviar, from the field of so much death. She learned 
what she is, Gangrel, and who made her what she is. 
The litany of dead names does not allow her to rest, 
though. She must give the list, and the story, to every 
Gangrel she encounters in her frantic wandering. And 
so the story spreads among the clan, and lost friends 
are mourned.
Image: Ramona is lean and wiry, her skin a light 
bronze under all the dirt. The tumultuous events of 
her short life and shorter existence as a vampire make 
her visibly wary. Her dark hair is wild but short, barely 
covering the furred and pointed tips of her ears. Her 
deformed, digitigrade feet are impossible to hide; she 
goes barefoot by necessity, showing unmistakable talons 
and elongated toes. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’ve been dead such a short 
while, and you’ve seen so much: Lupines, Sabbat mon-
sters, the terror of the attack on the strange vampire in 
New York. Blackfeather said that your road would be 
difficult, and you’re sure you haven’t seen the worst of 
it yet. Some nights you regret that you didn’t continue 
trying to make it on your own. Still, wherever you are, 
nobody pushes you around. When the big boys clean 
up the mess they made, then they can give you orders. 
Clan: Gangrel
Sire: Tanner
Nature: Rogue
Demeanor: Rebel
Ramona
Background: (Ramona is the protagonist of Clan 
Novel: Gangrel. If you’d like to read the book with its 
plot points intact, read no further here.)
Ramona was alive just three years ago, but already it 
seems like a lifetime away, memories bleached down to 
black and white. Los Angeles was a shitty place to live, 
but at least it was predictable: Staying away from drug 
dealers, pimps and gangs of any color kept her alive to 
see another day. Ramona followed all the rules, but the 
vampire found her anyway — or maybe he found her 
because. Alone and starving in the city, she fled friends 
and family before she couldn’t resist their blood. The 
memories from this time have all bled into each other, 
shades of all the Los Angelenos who died while Ramona 
learned to control her hunger and her new powers. The 
city was pretty crowded with vampires, some of them 
a brutal gang called the Sabbat, so Ramona and three 
other “orphans” hit the road for a better place to eke 
out survival. Eddie died again in Texas, ripped in half 
by a werewolf’s claws. Unable to find a place to settle 
down, Ramona and the others, Jen and Darnell, kept 
driving until they ran out of road in New York City. 
Here things became confusing for Ramona — events 


Clanbook: Gangrel
96
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1998
Apparent Age: Late teens
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 2, Brawl 1, Dodge 3, 
Empathy 2, Leadership 1, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 1
Skills: Drive 2, Firearms 1, Security 1, Stealth 3, 
Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics 1, Investigation 1, Law 1, 
Linguistics (Spanish) 1, Medicine 1
Disciplines: Animalism 1, Fortitude 2, Protean 3
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 2, Status 2
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 2, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 5
in resistance to his command. When the horse bucked, 
threw him, and galloped away, Sutton, thankfully only 
bruised, furiously shouted after the beast. The shouting 
did no good, and distracted him from noticing the undead 
predator who assaulted and Embraced him.
It took Sutton Gassaway a month to grow accus-
tomed to his unliving state; at the end of this period, 
his sire, a Gangrel named Aaron, explained that he’d 
been watching the Gassaway ranch for months and 
had decided to pass the “gift of immortality” to Sutton. 
Sutton was only mildly discomfited as Aaron told him 
of his new true nature; pragmatic, he accepted vampir-
ism as the cost he would have to pay for eternal “life.”
Gassaway had a few run-ins with anarchs and Sabbat 
vampires through the Pacific Northwest, but Aaron had 
warned him to keep his distance from Lupines, and he 
did that quite well. Still voraciously literate, he spent 
his long, empty nights reading everything he could get 
his hands on. H.G. Wells was a particular favorite, and 
when pulp science fiction magazines became popular 
after the Great War, Sutton spent night after night on 
distant planets or at the bottom of the ocean, entranced.
In the late 1930s, Sutton’s luck ran out. After too 
many nights alone in the wilderness, he came to the 
attention of a pack of anarchs that had fled the Free 
State to the northern Rockies. The battle, which ran 
through the streets of Helena, was rather one-sided. 
Gassaway didn’t have a chance against the anarchs’ 
nnumbers. Finally, he broke into the new Hammond 
Building, dove into the basement, and found a patch of 
bare earth large enough for him to sink into to recover 
from his wounds. By the time he emerged from his torpor, 
he found himself trapped — the Hammond Building’s 
basement had been cemented over and he could not 
break out. Resigned to a long entombment, Gassaway 
slipped into a deep unconsciousness.
He awoke from his long imprisonment in 1999; 
the Hammond Building in Helena was scheduled for 
demolition, and since he was under the basement, the 
building’s implosion knocked him out of torpor and into 
consciousness. Several nights passed in which Sutton 
only hunted and fed; Montana game wardens are still 
on the lookout for Gassaway, who they think must’ve 
been a bear. When Sutton regained the ability to speak, 
he learned that it was 1999. Driven by curiosity, he 
headed for more populous territory. 
It took Sutton Gassaway two nights to reach Seattle, 
and he was astonished and overjoyed at what he saw: he 
really was in the future. But certain things just weren’t 
right. For one thing, the anarchs were still around; he 
was sure they’d be eradicated by now. But more impor-
tantly, where were the personal air cars? Where were 
the rocket platforms for transportation to the Mars and 
Venus colonies? Where were the damned ray-guns?! 
Sutton Gassaway,  
Wishful Anachronism 
Background: Sutton Gassaway was born in 
Montana in 1861, just before it became the Montana 
Territory. His parents were ranchers who had fled west-
ward to escape the risk of war when the South declared 
its independence. He worked long, hard days on his 
parents’ ranch, and in the evenings the Gassaway family 
escaped into books and song. Sutton never received any 
formal schooling, but by age 19 he certainly read with 
greater proficiency than any young man within 50 miles.
One evening, on a long ride home from a shopping 
trip to Bannack, Sutton noticed that his horse was 
acting strangely; it would shift from a canter to a walk 
and back without his command, and more than once 


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
97
The kine of 1999 were obsessed with Internets and 
megahertz and, of all things, the stock market. Sutton 
heard no talk of space colonies or undersea cities, and 
he got strange looks when he asked about them in the 
library or the coffee shop.
Gassaway has learned of his clan’s departure from the 
Camarilla, but he’s not sure what he thinks of it yet. For 
the time being, he stays in Seattle, working as an assistant 
professor of English (specializing in Victorian literature) 
and looking for a clue as to what modern society is all 
about, while doing his best to stifle the activity of any 
anarch vampires he runs into. He’s a little concerned 
about the rumors of Gehenna, and has been trying to 
figure out a way to help kick-start the American space 
exploration program, so that if Gehenna does come, 
these poor mortals, who lack personal force fields, can 
flee to a safe planet.
Image: A tall, thickly built man, Gassaway presents 
the archetypal “mountain man” Gangrel appearance 
when he first wakes up in the evening. If he has the 
time to do so, he shaves his bushy beard and trims his 
scraggly, shoulder-length brown hair before going out 
in public; when pressed for time he’s a furry beast-man 
barely recognizable as the clean-shaven Dr. Gassaway.
Roleplaying Hints: Affect an air of erudition combined 
with a real lack of understanding of the modern world. 
Expect technology that doesn’t exist; show confusion 
when presented with real tech (“Mobile telephone? Why 
wouldn’t you just use your wrist communicator?”). You’re 
not an idiot; in fact, you’re bright and well-read. But you’re 
utterly unfamiliar with popular culture, and you expected 
that since you woke up in the year 1999 things would be 
significantly more futuristic. You’re a little disappointed that 
they are so mundane. You don’t really consider yourself to 
be cursed; yes, your temper has worsened, and you’re hairier 
and perhaps a bit uglier than you once were, and there is 
the blood issue, but for the most part you’re thrilled with 
the opportunity to watch the future come to you.
Clan: Gangrel
Sire: Aaron the Coward
Nature: Competitor
Demeanor: Curmudgeon
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1881
Apparent Age: 21
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 2, Stamina 4 (Tireless)
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 2, Appearance 1
Mental: Perception 4 (Careful), Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 1, Brawl 2, Dodge 2, 
Intimidation 2, Leadership 1
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 1, Firearms 2, Stealth 3, 
Survival 2
Knowledges: Academics 4 (Victorian Literature), Fi-
nance 1, Investigation 2, Law 1, Linguistics 2, Medicine 
1, Occult 1, Politics 1, Science 2
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 2, Fortitude 2, Protean 3
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Herd 1, Resources 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 3, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 7
Dr. Allan T. Woodstock
Background: Dr. Woodstock’s promising research 
career at Cambridge University was cut short by 
the Great War. He was drafted by the armed forces, 
marched quickly through officer training and hurried 
into a lab full of scientists whose job was to refine and 
develop delivery systems for deadly mustard gas and 
other chemical weapons. Troubled by thoughts of his 
young wife and daughter alone at home, he turned his 
tremendous intellect to the grim task of killing thousands 
of enemy soldiers. The military tested his weapons on 
rats, rabbits, dogs — whatever could be caught and 
caged to see how quickly it would die. Lieutenant 
Woodstock’s commanding officer was not satisfied with 
animal testing, and ordered the scientists to run their 
tests on human subjects: soldiers wounded in the field, 
perhaps beyond hope, some of them prisoners of war. 
The horrified Woodstock refused, and the major busted 
the principled scientist down to sergeant and sent him 
out with the infantry. Sergeant Woodstock died at the 
Battle of Verdun, in the sixth month of the conflict.
A scavenging Gangrel found him on the field, his blood 
pumping weakly into the mud, breath barely rattling from 
his lungs. Dr. Woodstock does not remember his sire, and 
wonders to this night whether the shadowy creature sensed 


Clanbook: Gangrel
98
humans invent for themselves, and that conscience cost 
him his life so many years ago. The subject of his most 
recently completed experiment is a young Toreador named 
Anna. Dr. Woodstock watched her grow from infancy to 
a beautiful young woman; the addition of Toreador blood 
to two decades of careful devotion has sent the normally 
reserved scientist into a tizzy. He has traded in a king’s 
ransom in prestation debt to secure Anna’s continued 
existence. Her sire, perturbed by the experiment’s lack 
of positive results, had threatened to invoke his right of 
destruction, but Dr. Woodstock cannot imagine his exis-
tence without her after so many years.
Dr. Woodstock maintains a small (but expensive) 
laboratory with two ghouled research assistants (his retain-
ers). He fills the gaps between his Discipline experiments 
with more conventional research, and publishes his results 
through a network of scientists in universities and the cor-
porate world. His appearance has degraded over the years: 
his left leg now bends backward at the knee like the hind 
leg of an animal, and his habitually worn lab coat hides 
the patchwork of assorted fur that covers most of his torso.
Image: Dr. Woodstock prefers pressed wool trou-
sers, crisp shirts and ties under his worn but clean lab 
coats. On extended trips he will relax his wardrobe 
into colonial-style khakis. The bifocals perched on 
the end of his nose are part affectation, and part handy 
magnifying glass.
Roleplaying Hints: Science used to be the most 
important thing in your life. You haven’t fallen out 
of love with your experiments, but you have become 
enchanted by one of them. Anna is the only thing that 
can tear you away from your studies without frustration, 
and you would do absolutely anything to maintain her 
affection for you. 
Clan: Gangrel
Sire: Unknown
Nature: Perfectionist
Demeanor: Pedagogue
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1916
Apparent Age: Late 20s
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2, Appearance 1
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 5, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 2, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, 
Empathy 2, Intimidation 2, Leadership 2, Subterfuge 1
Skills: Animal Ken 4, Crafts 2, Drive 2, Etiquette 2, 
Firearms 3, Melee 2, Stealth 2, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics 4, Computer 1, Finance 1, 
Investigation 3, Linguistics 3, Medicine 4, Occult 3, 
Politics 2, Science 4
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 2, Fortitude 2, Protean 4
that he was somehow different from the other doughboys 
dead and dying on the battlefield, or whether it was simply 
his warm blood and his sire’s sloppiness that bought him 
immortality. The Kindred vitae filled his broken body with 
enough strength to sink deep into the bloodstained ground. 
The war was long over when he reemerged, the Germans 
pushed back, his infantry company gone home; and his 
young wife, who thought him dead, remarried — which 
was undoubtedly for the best. Dr. Woodstock took refuge 
in his science with a pharmaceutical company willing to 
make scheduling allowances for a talented but shell-shocked 
young veteran. His brilliant and steady work brought him 
to the attention of London’s Lady Anne Bowesley, who 
sent her retainers to explore the niceties of bringing the 
promising mortal into Clan Ventrue. She took his prior 
Embrace with good grace, and eased his introduction to 
Kindred society with her influence — in exchange for 
certain investigations.
Dr. Woodstock kept his head down during World 
War II. It was a convenient time to leave London for the 
wide expanse of Greenland in the company of his clan-
mates, to learn the ways and traditions of the Gangrel. 
The doctor has remained active and mobile since 
the close of that war, maintaining a permanent haven in 
London but moving his compact laboratory facilities from 
city to city — sometimes countries or continents away. 
The focus of his research has changed through the years. 
Although he finds the human body and its interaction 
with Kindred vitae fascinating, the unexplainable, magical 
abilities possessed by vampires keep him awake during 
the day, designing studies that will allow him to define 
Disciplines precisely, mathematically, scientifically. His 
results have been frustrating, since it has proven nearly 
impossible to repeat the results of any given study. The 
variations and exceptional uses of Disciplines that he 
has recorded in decades of study are of interest to princes 
and elders. Dr. Woodstock doesn’t really understand why 
such unreliable results would be valuable to anyone — 
indeed, he has read compiled research by one Douglas 
Netchurch, which seems much more complete than his 
own. Nonetheless, they are the currency with which he 
has maintained his good relations with the Camarilla 
and the princes in whose domains he resides. 
He takes advantage of his unnatural span of years by 
conducting experiments that take exceptionally long to 
complete. Among other schemes, he has blinded young 
vampires and Embraced the congenitally blind to compare 
their adaptation of the Protean Discipline; and Embraced 
and ghouled identical twins to compare their learning 
speeds and skills. His experiments with human and Kindred 
subjects, and the occasional deaths of those upon whom 
he feeds, cause him occasional twinges of conscience — 
twinges he pushes down with reminders of the horrors 


Chapter Three: Beasts Among Men
99
Backgrounds: Allies 3, Clan Prestige 2, Contacts 3, 
Generation 5, Influence 2, Resources 4, Retainers 2, 
Status 3
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 5, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 5
Ulisyan Thracs was found to have been destroyed near 
Racine. Less than a week later, a group of neonates de-
stroyed an obviously insane Prince Terence Merik — who, 
it seemed, had been responsible for Thracs’ death. Several 
months after that, Lupines attacked Chicago en masse, 
killing its prince and decimating its undead population.
Milwaukee’s Kindred society splintered after Merik’s 
death. Some took the side of the corpulent Ventrue Gracis, 
while others sided with the Brujah Scott. A few refugees 
fled north from Chicago, but many simply sat back, biding 
their time and waiting for a bold vampire to claim the title. 
The power struggle lasted months, and while the Kindred 
fought and argued, Lupines and a German vampire-hunter 
picked off Cainites throughout Milwaukee. 
When the horde of Lupines struck Chicago, Decker 
finally gave up his self-imposed exile from the Council 
of Milwaukee. He believed that if the infighting paralyz-
ing the Kindred of Milwaukee did not cease, they could 
not avoid Chicago’s fate. He approached the ancient 
Ventrue Hrothulf — whether to secure the old one’s 
assistance or assure his noninterference is unclear — 
and then paid a visit to Gracis’ haven. Decker slew the 
Roman Ventrue then returned downtown. With the 
Anubi arrayed behind him, Decker entered Elysium 
and declared himself prince.
Decker’s gambit might have failed at once, but the 
remaining council members saw him as an unknown, and 
as such preferable to an enemy otherwise jockeying for 
the throne. Additionally, years of Lupine fighting had 
taken Decker’s martial talents to an unheard-of level; 
though Scott had designs on the throne, he showed no 
interest in duelling the leader of the Anubi. 
Due mainly to the Lupine threat, Decker keeps 
Milwaukee on a war footing. Former Anubi fill most 
major positions in the city, and meetings with the council 
have become an oft-forgotten formality. He enforces the 
Traditions strictly, and regularly disallows even ghoul 
creation as a Masquerade risk. Whatever understanding 
he reached with Hrothulf has since faded; he prevented 
the ancient Ventrue from siring a childe a few years ago, 
earning that elder’s enmity.
Xaviar’s break with the Camarilla has complicated 
Decker’s unlife even farther. The prince did not know 
the justicar well, and mistrusted the rumors he’d heard, 
choosing to remain nominally a part of the Camarilla. 
But an old ally from the Cold War, the ancient Gangrel 
Inyanga, now spends as much time in Milwaukee as 
Chicago. Inyanga has left the Camarilla, as she is far 
more concerned with her own well-being than sectar-
ian struggle. Decker and Inyanga have become close, 
the young warrior learning secrets from the old witch; 
her influence has him giving serious consideration to 
pulling Milwaukee out of the Camarilla and declaring 
it a free city.
Mark Decker, Reluctant Prince of 
Milwaukee
Background: Lucian, a Roman-era Gangrel, Em-
braced Decker during the American Revolutionary 
War. The young commander was a “sorrow Embrace”, to 
hear him tell it. Lucian couldn’t bear to kill him when 
he’d only intended to feed from the dead or dying, so 
he gave Decker the Embrace. In some form or other, 
Decker has been fighting ever since.
He took over an Alabama plantation with his sire in 
the early 19th century, feeding well and regularly from 
the slaves, but the War Between the States forced him 
to take up arms again. After the war, the plantation 
destroyed and his slaves freed, Decker traveled north, 
finally settling in the sleepy little town of Milwaukee. 
Decker maintained a simple haven there until a pack of 
Lupines ambushed him, forcing him into panicked flight. 
When he awoke after his terrified frenzy, Decker found 
that he’d killed and drained his small herd of mortals. 
He vowed vengeance and formed the Anubi, a group 
dedicated to defending the Kindred from Lupines. Over 
the next century, the Anubi set themselves apart from 
Milwaukee’s Kindred society and triumphantly claimed 
nearly a score of Lupine scalps as prizes. 
All would have continued in the same vein if the 
domain of Milwaukee had not been shaken with three 
successive shocks from early 1992 to mid-’93. First, Justicar 


Clanbook: Gangrel
100
Image: Mark Decker is a tall, slim man. Like most 
Kindred, his skin is nearly white; his hair is coal black. 
If it were not for the aura of menace he exudes, he might 
seem sickly. His voice rasps when he talks, due to a throat 
scar earned in a long-ago Lupine battle. He is haggard 
and seems more tired than an immortal should. His 
eyes flick back and forth in a somewhat frantic fashion 
when he is forced to stay in long meetings. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’re distracted most of the 
time. You’ve been fighting a war of some kind or other 
for more than two centuries, and you’re tired, but you 
cannot rest. You know that if you rest, more of your 
(former) people die (again), and you’re sure that if you 
let go for long enough to really rest you’ll drop into 
torpor for a decade or three. You are exhausted, drawn 
and paying attention to too many things at once.
Clan: Gangrel 
Nature: Fanatic
Demeanor: Survivor
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1777
Apparent Age: mid-20s
Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 5, Stamina 5
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 3, Wits 3 (formerly 
5, before his nerves began to fray)
Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 2, Brawl 5, Dodge 5, 
Intimidation 3, Leadership 4, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 3, Etiquette 2, Firearms 5, 
Melee 5, Security 4, Stealth 5
Knowledges: Academics 1, Camarilla Lore 2, Inves-
tigation 3, Linguistics 2 (French, German), Medicine 
2, Politics 2
Disciplines: Animalism 3, Auspex 2, Celerity 5, Domi-
nate 1, Fortitude 3, Obfuscate 4, Potence 3, Protean 5
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Resources 3, Retainers 5, Status 4
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 3, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 7


™
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated
Incurable Derangement


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
TotalSpent:_________________________
Spent on:
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_________________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair________________________________________________________________________________
Eyes_________________________________________________________________________________
Race________________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-56504-265-4
WW2352  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
Noble Savages? 
Or Savages Unbound?
As rogues and wanderers, the Gangrel have always placed 
themselves apart from other Kindred. The Outlanders have no 
need for the petty Jyhads and useless sniping of the undead — 
they are vampires, the highest order of beasts! Now Clan Gangrel 
prowls the night unfettered by the traditions of the crumbling 
Camarilla. They have finally called the night their own.
Clanbook: Gangrel Inludes:
• A look at the clan that forsook the Camarilla’s ivory tower and  
          hunts alone;
• Includes details on every aspect of Gangrel unlife, from their   
     earliest nights to the secession from the Camarilla; 
• Describes new secrets, Discipline powers and lore of the clan.
Noble Savages? 
Or Savages Unbound?
As rogues and wanderers, the Gangrel have always placed 
themselves apart from other Kindred. The Outlanders have no 
need for the petty Jyhads and useless sniping of the undead — 
they are vampires, the highest order of beasts! Now Clan Gangrel 
prowls the night unfettered by the traditions of the crumbling 
Camarilla. They have finally called the night their own.
Clanbook: Gangrel Inludes:
• A look at the clan that forsook the Camarilla’s ivory tower and  
          hunts alone;
• Includes details on every aspect of Gangrel unlife, from their   
     earliest nights to the secession from the Camarilla; 
• Describes new secrets, Discipline powers and lore of the clan.
TM
