TM
N
k


Contents
1
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
By Deird’re Brooks


Clanbook: Ravnos
2
Credits
Written by: Deird’re Brooks
Developed by: Justin Achilli
Editor: Diane Piron-Gelman
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten
Interior Art: Mike Danza, Leif Jones, Andrew 
Trabbold,Drew Tucker, Christopher Shy
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten
Special Thanks
Two Small Mummies
Chadbot
Night Monkey
Angie Harmon
Boxed Boys James and Andy
The Camarilla
All that sediment in the bottom of my wine glass
The Fred Durst mullet skater
Paul van Dyk
Died on the Vine
Monkey-Chickens: The Whip-Assing. Sorry, Dean.
Duh
The Mind’s Eye Theatre credit for Alan I. Kravit was 
accidentally left out of Clanbook: Tzimisce. I am a 
cabbage.
© 2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the 
publisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes 
of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be 
reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, 
Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage 
the Ascension, World of Darkness and Aberrant are 
registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith 
the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the 
Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcer-
ers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Clanbook 
Ravnos, and Time of Thin Blood are trademarks of 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All 
characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted 
by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product 
in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or 
copyright concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters 
and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are 
fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. 
This book contains mature content. Reader discretion 
is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Table of Contents
Introduction: The Devil’s Due
Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
4
14
38
70


Clanbook: Ravnos
4


The Devil’s Due
5
The Devil’s Due
no trouble sneaking a thief like her out 
of the law’s long reach, right? Gwen 
signaled the barkeep for a fifth shot and 
took a moment to watch the room swim 
around her. It looked unreal, like her time 
around Johann. Something about him made 
the world fuzz out at the edges.
The barkeep tapped her on the shoulder, 
“Don’t you think it’s time to go home?” 
Gwen shook her head and tried to focus 
both eyes on the balding older man. He 
was looking annoyingly paternal. “A 
young lady like you should be home with 
your boyfriend on a night like this.” 
“Bloody hell,” Gwen muttered into her 
drink. “One last night of freedom.” She 
drained the glass in one gulp, shudder-
ing as the scotch burned its way to her 
stomach to join the party already started 
by the previous three shots.
Gwendolyn Brand, Ph. D., fully in-
tended to drink herself into oblivion. 
She’d have a headache tomorrow, but 
she regarded that as an acceptable 
compromise. Where was that bastard 
Johann when she really needed him? 
The lazy fuck got her into this mess, 
then vanished just when she needed to 
get out. A smuggler like him should have 


Clanbook: Ravnos
6
She shook her head again, partly in 
denial and partly to reduce the number 
of barkeeps in her vision to one. “Nossir.” 
Damn, I’m slurring already. “No… sir. I’m 
waiting for him. Gimme… Give me another 
scotch, please.” With any luck, she could 
perforate her liver enough to die before 
she grew old in prison.
The barkeep nodded and shrank into 
the shadows, leaving Gwen in peace. She 
stared into her empty shot glass. “Bas-
tards. You buy them books, you pay their 
way, and what do they do? They eat the 
bloody teacher. Fucking bastards.”
The final time had been in Istanbul. 
She’d met with Johann in the Kumkapi 
district, in a nice, modern nightclub. 
The dance floor flashed with a million 
colors while young people from a dozen 
different nations thrashed around each 
other to the music of an Israeli pop sen-
sation named Dana International. The 
mingled smells of sweat, alcohol and a 
lesser cloud of illicit drugs lent an air of 
unreality to the proceedings. Gwen sat 
at a corner table, her flight bag filled 
with portable treasures for Johann to 
auction in the States.
Johann, the bastard, was late again. 
He’d never been on time and refused to 
try to change his habits. The treasures 
she was holding for him had come from 
one of the endless digs intended to iden-
tify the real Plain of Ilium, where the 


The Devil’s Due
7
Trojans and Greeks supposedly fought 
the Trojan War. The trinkets certainly 
looked like they dated from the Achaean 
period, but could easily have been later 
imitations. Gwen didn’t care beyond the 
generous finder’s fee Johann always 
had ready. 
She thought she recognized an Anglo 
face near the bar, but the light was too 
dim in contrast to the strobes for her to 
be sure. Before she could take a closer 
look, Johann appeared and sat opposite 
her. She studied his narrow, pale fea-
tures, marked by an unusually high flush 
in his cheeks — probably from the close 
heat in the club. As usual, his pupils were 
slightly dilated and his otherwise stylish 
clothes unkempt, as if he’d been sleeping 
in them for a week. He stared at a point 
just beyond Gwen’s left shoulder, focus-
ing owlishly for a moment before asking 
in his clipped New England accent, 
“What’d you bring me this time? I hope 
you have some intact pottery. One of my 
buyers has been on my case for ages—“
“Hush!” Gwen cut him off and 
glanced around. No one was looking 
her way — wait, had the Anglo at the 
bar just turned around fast enough to 
get whiplash? He was leaning against 
the bar now, his pose casual. She kept 
half an eye on him as she spoke to Jo-
hann. “I can’t even count all the laws 
I’m breaking by meeting you here. Could 
you at least keep it down?”
Johann’s eyes widened at her imperti-
nence. He stared for a few moments, then 
shook himself and shrugged with a forced 
smile. “Sorry baby, got carried away. The 
hash here is the living end, I tell you. So, 
what’d you bring me?”
Mollified by his softer tone, she 
ticked off the acquisitions again, for-
getting about the Anglo, the music and 
the club in general. The Gwen in the 
present-day Horse Brass Pub cursed 
herself for the hundredth time for that 
moment of inattention. 
Johann interrupted her halfway 
through the list. “Hey, kiddo, that sounds 
good, but can you show me something? I’d 
like a look before I commit to anything.” 
He patted his jacket, where he usually 
kept his wallet. His cavalier attitude 
always amazed her. The cocky bastard 
could walk through the nastiest part of 
any city in the world in the middle of the 
night and show not a single care for the 
fact that his presence screamed “Victim!” 
to the moon, stars and every predator who 
walked the streets. Even more amazing 
was the fact that he never seemed to 
suffer for it. The sod.
She slid the green flight bag over to 
him. Let him open it up. She didn’t want 
to get caught handling this stuff in pub-
lic, but she couldn’t let Johann go. She 
needed the cash. Johann seemed happy 
enough with the trinkets and tossed her 
an envelope stuffed with hundred-dollar 
bills. Bloody Yank couldn’t be bothered 
to exchange the money before paying off 
his faithful thieves. 
Apparently satisfied with the trans-
action, Johann got up, slung the bag 
over his shoulder and headed for the 
exit. A black-haired woman Gwen had 
seen a dozen times but never met caught 


Clanbook: Ravnos
8
up with Johann half way, and the two 
left the nightclub for the warm, Medi-
terranean night.
A week later and back in London, 
Gwen received a letter from Dean 
Wellesley. The missive demanded an 
immediate meeting and explained little, 
though she had a definite feeling the man 
wanted her head on a platter. 
Dean Wellesley was well into his 
50s, probably on the verge of his sexage-
narian decade. His age only added to his 
formidable presence. Rumors around the 
college claimed he could stare down the 
most incorrigible student in seconds, with 
only the lift of an eyebrow to indicate 
his displeasure. Despite the stories, Gwen 
was not prepared for the full force of 
the man’s anger that assaulted her the 
moment she entered his office. “What on 
Earth were you thinking, Doctor Brand?” 
His emphasis on “doctor” gave her the 
distinct impression that he did not view 
it as an honorific.
Startled into speechlessness, Gwen 
could only shake her head. The dean barely 
noticed her reaction and thundered on. 
“Oxford is England’s most prestigious 
university. It exists to provide the youth 
of every generation the very best op-
portunities for education to better their 
lives and their careers.” He paused, his 
gaze boring into her skull.
Gwen nodded, suspicions developing. 
“Yes, sir.” She took a breath and started 
to ask what was going on, but the dean 
was off again.
“Oxford is not here to provide petty 
criminals with a venue in which to prac-
tice their illicit activities. Do you think 
this university has stood for as long as 
it has, maintained its reputation for as 
long as it has, by coddling reprobates?” 
His volume increased until the final word 
literally rattled the windows. 
“No sir.” Now Gwen knew that the 
dean had learned of her dealings with 
Johann. But how? 
The answer arrived moments later. 
Dean Wellesley turned from Gwen and 
spoke into his intercom. “Miss Wallace, 
could you please send the boy in?” He 
barely waited for the affirmative and 
waved Gwen to silence before she could 
ask a question. “All will be clear in a mo-
ment, although I am certain you already 
know why you are here.”
When the door opened, Gwen stared. 
The young man standing in the doorway 
was Edward Taylor, her research as-
sistant from the Ilium dig. With a sudden 
chill, she realized it was him she’d seen in 
the Kumkapi nightclub. The dean directed 
Edward to sit — something he had not 
invited Gwen to do.
“Now, Mr. Taylor,” Wellesley said 
in a more controlled tone, “could you 
repeat for Dr. Brand what you told me 
a few days ago?” 
Gwen’s heart sank as Ed — whom 
she had considered a friend — produced 
photographs of the stolen materials and 
described her rendezvous with Johann 
down to the exchange of goods for money. 
Ed also produced the note Johann had 
sent to arrange the time and place — not 
damning in itself, but in combination with 
the rest….


The Devil’s Due
9
Wellesley turned his formidable 
gaze back to Gwen. “Now, young 
lady, have you anything to say in your 
defense? Before you begin, you should 
also be aware that I have authorized 
the hiring of investigators to check 
Mr. Taylor’s claims before summoning 
you here. Such accusations leveled 
against one of our faculty — even one 
as new as yourself — are very seri-
ous indeed. We have evidence of your 
thefts from dig sites stretching back to 
the beginning of your archaeological 
career. I am appalled that you would 
not only risk your own professional 
standing, but also the reputation of 
our alma mater.” 
Gwen stood straighter and met 
Wellesley’s gaze. “Yes, Dean, I do have 
something to say.” If he could use honor-
ifics as weapons, so could she. “I did it. 
What else could I do? I couldn’t afford 
to live on the pittance this university 
laughingly calls a salary. Perhaps if the 
ancient and famed Oxford University 
paid me as much as any male professor 
receives, I would not have been com-
pelled to seek an alternate form of 
income. However, I have committed no 
crime on English soil. My solicitor will 
contact you shortly.” Before Wellesley 
or Taylor could stop her, she stormed 
out of the office, slammed the door and 
ran for her automobile. 


Clanbook: Ravnos
10
She drove to Piccadilly Circus, spent 
several minutes looking for a parking 
space, and then took the tube somewhere 
else. She didn’t care where, she just rode 
until she found someplace promising and 
stopped. She had no intention of calling a 
lawyer, but she did want to call Johann. 
The bastard got her into this mess, he 
could get her out. She didn’t believe she 
could stay out of prison for a minute, 
not without help. 
She didn’t dare return to her flat or 
her car. The first order of business was 
to call Johann and lay out her situation 
without incriminating him as well and 
to arrange a meeting. The second was 
to keep moving until Johann could reach 
her.  She placed the call and waited, 
stomach roiling.
“Hello?” came Johann’s voice on the 
other end of the line.
“Listen, you Yank idiot. I need help. My 
boss said he knows about us and I know 
he’s called the police. They’ve probably 
put out a bulletin with my picture on it. 
If you don’t help me, I’ll tell them every-
thing I know—“
“Whoa, whoa. Slow down, baby. Just 
how deep is the shit you’re in?”
“I could drown you in it.”
“Right, then. I’ll be over as fast as I 
can.”
They had made arrangements to hook 
up at the Horse Brass Pub.  And so now 
here she was, getting drunk on Scotch, 
never a brilliant move when you haven’t 
slept in two days, but she was so tired 
of running. 
Johann arrived at the pub four hours 
late. Gwen had chased off a second at-
tempt to wave her home with a tip in the 
double digits. The Yank was his usual 
unflappable self. “So, what can I do for 
you — Holy shit, how much have you 
been drinking?”
Gwen looked at her glass. “All of it.” 
Johann grinned. “Well, at least 
you made it interesting. Let’s go, shall 
we? I’ve prepared a room at the Royal 
Garden. Only the best for my ladies.” He 
helped Gwen to her feet. “When you get 
in trouble, you don’t do it in small doses, 
do you?” She mumbled an answer, fatigue 
and alcohol carrying her beyond verbal 
responses. By the time Johann got her into 
his rented car, she was out cold.
She awoke briefly on the most 
comfortable bed she’d ever slept in. Half-
conscious, she was aware that Johann 
— who else could it be? — was doing 
something to her that felt good — bet-
ter than the best scotch and the best sex 
rolled into one. She’d take him to task if 
she could only stop melting into the mat-
tress. She slipped back into sleep, haunted 
by dreams tainted with the paranoia of 
the past two days.
She awoke fully sometime in the late 
afternoon. The sun’s rays shone through 
the open curtains and hammered at her 
eyelids like a bad bass rhythm. She forced 
her eyes open through the pounding head-
ache. She could taste her tonsils — and 
they did not taste good. She turned her 
aching head and saw a note on the pil-
low next to her, in precise handwriting:


The Devil’s Due
11
Don’t go anywhere, don’t use room 
service. I’ve left you food and drink for 
the day. I’ll be back this evening and we 
can leave.
Kisses,
Johann
“Wonderful,” she muttered. “Trapped 
in a hotel next to Kensington Palace with 
the police no doubt scouring the streets 
for me.” She straggled out of bead, closed 
the curtains, shut off all the lights, and 
sipped as much water as she could hold 
down. Solid food was beyond her. “I’m 
such a bloody fool.” Through a miracle 
of biology, she dozed off before evening.
Johann woke her hours later, on time 
for once. “I’m sorry I had to leave you. 
You’ll understand why soon enough.” 
He helped her into a chair. “I had hoped 
to hold off for awhile, at least until I 
could explain everything, but things are 
tense, and the only way I can get you out 
of London — anyway, whatever you do, 
whatever happens, don’t panic.”
Gwen opened her mouth to argue, but 
all the fight suddenly drained from her. 
She knew that Johann had somehow 
caused her lethargy, but couldn’t find the 
strength to confront him or even move. 
She even lacked the energy to find the 
experience frightening. 
A small part of her mind remained alert 
through the last vestiges of hangover and 
whatever was smothering her soul. That 
part saw Johann’s perfectly normal teeth 
grow into frighteningly sharp fangs. That 


Clanbook: Ravnos
12
part of her mind screamed bloody murder 
when he sank those knife-like teeth into 
her throat. She swooned as he drained 
her blood in swift gulps. She barely felt 
the intense pleasure the feeding instills 
in victims before she passed out. 
Gwen stood on a flat plain, mountains 
in the distance, heavy clouds obscuring 
the stars. A red light flashed in the dis-
tance, searching. The red was not so much 
a color as an emotion — intense anger 
and hatred mixed together, emanating 
from a source so strong it was visible to 
the naked eye. She knew she could not 
allow it to find her, but lacked a place 
to hide. She turned to run—
Johann pressed his wrist to Gwen’s 
mouth, staining her face with a thick, 
cold liquid that burned her throat as she 
drank like no scotch ever could and barely 
satisfied a hunger that permeated her be-
ing. “Drink, damn you.” She swallowed a 
large clot that had pooled in her throat 
while she was unconscious and drank, 
unable to think of anything else. 
She kept drinking until the hunger 
subsided to a controllable level and her 
mind returned to rational thought. Then 
she snapped her head away from his wrist, 
stared at him for a moment, and slapped him 
as hard as she could. “You. Filthy. Yank. 
Bastard!” She ran out of breath and had 
to consciously take in more air. “What 
the hell do you think you’re doing?”
His nostrils flared and he snarled be-
fore visibly regaining control. “I’m saving 
you from a prison sentence, just as you 
asked.” He spat each word as if it were 
a dagger. Blood trickled from the corner 
of his mouth, where one of Gwen’s rings 
had caught the skin. He wiped the blood 
with the back of his hand and stared at 
it for a moment before licking it clean.
Gwen stood, shaking with rage. 
“What have you done to me?” She couldn’t 
feel her heart beating and didn’t bother 
to check for a pulse. “I wanted to live 
somewhere that wouldn’t extradite me, 
not get into kinky… whatever this is!”
Johann wondered briefly if he’d done 
the right thing, but bulled ahead anyway. 
“Look, I can understand your outrage. I 
mean, someone did this to me once. Anyway, 
we need to get you a vessel — some suste-
nance before you lose control and start 
snapping at throats. Call room service.”
“And order what? Steak tartare?”
“It doesn’t matter if you want the 
bellhop, but you can’t kill him. I like this 
hotel and I want to come back.”
She laughed at him. “Maybe I will kill 
him.” Then she stopped, surprised that such 
words had come from her lips. “No. Wait. 
This isn’t right.”
“Fine; I’ll call room service.” Johann 
started for the phone, but Gwen beat 
him to it.
She smirked. “I’ll handle it, just like you 
told me.” She picked up the phone and dialed. 
“What’s the most expensive item on your 
menu? What’s in it? Very good, I’ll take 
some. And send up some of your best wine, 
if you please.” She winked at Johann as 
she hung up. “I’m sure you can afford it.” 
The wait was nerve-wracking for 
Gwen and frustrating for Johann. When 
the bellhop finally brought the meal, 


The Devil’s Due
13
Gwen briefly snapped out of her mood 
and latched onto the poor man’s throat. 
She would have killed him, lost in slak-
ing the hunger that threaded through her 
body and soul, had Johann not pulled her 
away. “Lick the wound,” he hissed. Too 
startled to argue, she obeyed. 
As soon as the dazed bellhop left — with 
a hefty tip and apologies for his “unhealthy 
wife” from Johann — the Yank turned to 
Gwen. “We must leave now — we can’t 
let Queen Anne catch us here. Especially 
after that little episode. I’ve arranged 
transportation for tonight. Move.”
Gwen, reeling under too many un-
natural surprises for one evening and 
still tasting human blood on her lips, 
couldn’t muster the will to argue. She 
followed Johann into the night, and the 
new existence that awaited her.


Clanbook: Ravnos
14


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
15
Chapter One: 
Agreed Upon 
Lies
HISTORY, n. An account mostly false, of events mostly unimportant, which are brought about by rulers mostly 
knaves, and soldiers mostly fools.
—Ambrose Bierce, The Devil’s Dictionary
Okay, this is what you wanted and it’s all I could 
dig up. Thank you so much for sending us into the 
middle of India and all those Chinese and Indian 
psycho-Kindred out for our vitae.
We found the havens you told us about and dug 
out the journals and artifacts. John and I translated 
and transcribed it in a stinking hotel room in Calcutta 
while some fucked-up coterie calling itself the Bone 
Flowers was looking for us about 200 miles away to 
the south. I can’t promise that any of this will make 
sense or answer your questions, but I bet it’d make a 
great summer blockbuster. You know — one of those 
really overblown ones. We could cast Ah-nuld as 
Zapathasura, the tougher-than-hell bastard who just 
won’t stay dead. Drew Diaz, or whatever Hollywood 
whore is hot right now, could play the love interest 
who sticks a knife in his back, the Gangrel progenitor.
We found pieces of the Karavalanisha Vrana, 
though not a complete copy. Clues pointed us toward 
a mountain in Pakistan, but when we went there, 
it looked like pure hell. Something had warped the 
landscape and fused it into glass. John saw a crack 
running through a mountain. We found nothing 
useful there and didn’t really want to hang around. 
I swear something was watching us the whole time. 
Something nasty.
If even half of this stuff is true, I want to get off 
of this world right the fuck now.
A note about dates: If it happened before the 
Bronze Age, I don’t have much in the way of accurate 
chronology. The era of Enoch and the Karavalanisha 
Vrana just doesn’t exist on the calendar. My best 
guess is between 10,000 and 6,000 BC, but I have no 
rational way to narrow that down. You want better 
specifics, you can come get them. I’m busy holding 
my bitten-off arm to the stump left after the attack 
by a flying head with all the guts hanging out, and 
hoping it will heal.


Clanbook: Ravnos
16
The Karavalanisha Vrana: An Aside
So you’re reading this history and wondering, 
“What the hell is this Karavalanisha Vrana crap?” 
The Karavalanisha Vrana, translated as Wounds 
of the Night’s Sword, is an epic poem about the 
origins and early years of the Ravnos clan. It falls 
into clear fabrication and fable at points, especially 
when the author tries to justify the existence of 
the Ravnos and their holy purpose. It also serves 
as the basis for the Path of Paradox, a Ravnos code 
of ethics that sees the Embrace as an investment 
of duty rather than an excuse to claim jurisdiction 
over life and death just because those Embraced 
drink blood.
All evidence indicates that the Ravnos believed  
Zapathasura him/her/itself wrote the original text, 
but then Kindred of all stripes are good at the big 
lie. I suspect the real culprit was a now-forgotten 
elder with more time and poetic talent than good 
sense. The Karavalanisha Vrana could be based on 
earlier tales about our origins, or might be a work 
of fiction some ancient bastard wrote so he could 
keep his childer in line.
Right now, it’s hard to tell either way. The ex-
isting text is also the best starting point we have. 
Against my better judgment, I believe in it. It just… 
feels right.
Indian Records
These records are taken from a half-dozen 
havens, presumably those that belonged to elders 
who were destroyed during the Week of Night-
mares. Stories in the Americas and Europe describe 
Ravnos flying into frenzy and suffering diablerie or 
Final Death. The Ravnos elders showed no signs 
of violence or even resistance. Their desiccated 
remains apparently fell wherever the victims were 
standing, or stayed where they were sitting or lay-
ing. Something appeared to have drained all the 
vitae out of their bodies.
We burned every body we found, or scattered 
the ashes when too little of the corpse remained.
Marcia Felicia Licinia
Centuries ago, the Ravnos elder Marcia 
Felicia Licinia, childe of Phaedyme, childe of 
Marizhavashti Kali, childe of Zapathasura (as she 
signed her name) compiled a trove of information 
on Ravnos history and lineages. Her own journals 
Lexicon
Clanbook: Ravnos introduces several terms not 
seen in other Vampire titles. Many are derived from 
Hindu words, but their use among Ravnos may differ 
from usage among mortals. Other words are derived 
from the Romani language, as spoken by the Rroma.
Alexandrites: A lineage of Ravnos formerly 
centered in Egypt, now scattered.
asuratizayya: “Countless demons”; what the 
Ravnos called the siddhi after their fall.
Bashirites: A Ravnos lineage whose members 
were apocalyptic Christians. Most joined the Sabbat.
Brahman: One of the original Ravnos jati. The 
Brahman had “second sight” and could perceive the 
world in strange ways. Known for their gift of prophecy.
Chandalas: One of the jati, though not always 
Ravnos. This jati is composed of outcasts and caitiffs, 
and is considered impure.
jati: A Hindu word, meaning “caste”. Among the 
Ravnos, it denotes lineage. Among Indian Ravnos, 
lineage and caste are considered the same thing.
Karavalanisha Vrana: Wounds of the Night’s 
Sword. An epic poem about the Ravnos clan’s history 
in India. Much of it is metaphorical or allegorical 
and may make only sidereal reference to real events. 
Zapathasura is the rumored author, but it’s more likely 
that several Ravnos contributed to the work over time.
Kshatriyas: The jati associated with warfare and 
leadership. They led the war against the asuratizayya 
for millennia.
kumpaniya: A traveling family or company 
of Rroma. Sometimes described as Gypsies, these 
companies may harbor Kindred among their ranks.
mayaparisatya: From maya, referring to illu-
sion, and parisatya, referring to truth. It refers to the 
“paradox” in the Path of Paradox. The word also 
occasionally refers to the Path itself or to Chimerstry.
Phaedymites: A visionary branch of the Rav-
nos, this line vanished just after the formation of 
the Camarilla.
Phuri Dae: Brahman Ravnos who traveled west 
with the Rroma. The word comes from Romani and 
means “old woman.”
shilmulo: A Kindred; the undead.
siddhi: Supernatural beings charged to protect 
humanity from demonic forces. They failed, becoming 
demonic themselves, and were cursed for their failure.
Sudras: The most common meaning is “Ghouls”, 
but the title carries other formal connotations.
svadharma: An individual’s purpose; her reason 
for being.
Vaisyas: A Ravnos jati concerned primarily 
with interaction among mortals and covering up 
any evidence of Kindred existence. 
Zapathasura: The Ravnos progenitor. More of 
a title than a name, this word means something like 
“Accursed Monster.”


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
17
indicate concern at the arrival of Ravnos with 
the nomadic Rroma and their disdain — even 
hostility — for the Ravnos already established 
in Europe. Much of the following account comes 
from Marcia’s writings.
Lawrence received Marcia’s records in an anony-
mously shipped parcel I refer to as the “care package.” 
I cannot vouch for Marcia’s accuracy — some of 
her writings are downright unbelievable — but I 
included them for the sake of completeness. Her 
history fills in gaps that the Indian material could 
not, especially regarding the doings of the Ravnos 
once they left India. Also, I can’t claim to have been 
around when much of this happened, so maybe my 
modern mind just can’t wrap itself around what she’s 
describing. Perhaps those older than I can vouch 
for the  veracity of various incidents… oops, no 
they can’t. They’re all dead. We may never know, 
but here you have it anyway.
Demons and the Dead
According to the Wounds of the Night’s Sword, 
the Ravnos first appeared in India when a group 
of angelic guardians betrayed their duty and used 
their powers to spread war and tyranny across 
the face of the Earth. These beings, called the 
siddhi, were called before the gods to face justice. 
The siddhi stood accused of murder, of using 
their power to drain the life from the humans 
they were charged to protect. They also faced 
judgement for losing track of their purpose — to 
battle the true demons that encroached upon 
the mortal world. 
The gods cursed the siddhi, taking their divine 
breath from the culprits and cursing them to 
become one with the darkness. The gods named 
them asuratizayya, or “countless demons.” Because 
the gods could not strip the accursed horde of all 
its power without greater harm to the world, they 
chose to create a balance. They summoned the 
soul of a man more terribly wronged than any 
other mortal by the siddhi’s  crimes and told him 
that he was to become like his tormentors, so that 
he could hound them to the four corners of the 
Earth and destroy them. Unlike the asuratizayya, 
the man would be able to make more of his own 
kind and so overwhelm the enemy. Unfortunately, 
the true demons saw how the gods’ chosen warrior 
was returned to Earthly existence as one of the 


Clanbook: Ravnos
18
of death, destruction and the end of the world. 
The Black Mother was famous for her perception 
and understanding of all layers of reality and was 
a renowned prophetess. The Brahman, and later 
the Phuri Dae, claim descent from Zapathasura 
through her. The stories say she could sense the 
asuratizayya from hundreds of leagues away, know 
the deepest inner thoughts of all near her, and kept 
a list of the sinners and saints among her peers. 
After the Black Mother abandoned Zapathasura 
and his war, her sire ordered her name stricken 
from all records. (Obviously, they missed a few.) 
The second childe was the Rakshasa, reputed 
to possess unequaled skill at deception. Ac-
cording to the stories, he could walk among the 
most potent of the asuratizayya without risk of 
detection, suckle at a tiger’s teat and sell water 
to a thirsty fish. During the long years when he 
stood at Zapathasura’s right hand, he acted as 
scout for the Ravnos and learned much about the 
enemy. In time, he disagreed with his sire’s war 
and made the mistake of telling him so. The two 
fought bitterly and the Rakshasa barely escaped. 
According to the Karavalanisha Vrana, he turned 
to Zapathasura’s second-greatest enemy. Based on 
the apocrypha, that enemy might be the so-called 
“traitor” Ennoia. According to other records, the 
Rakshasa may have sought refuge in Africa or 
what is now referred to as the “Middle Kingdom,” 
where the Cathayans prowl.
unliving and taught the secret to the asuratizayya. 
The fallen angels could not learn the secret of 
the Embrace, but with this knowledge, they did 
not need it. 
Some of the gods feared that their unliving 
warrior would turn on them as the siddhi had, 
and cursed him. The gods of fire and the sun 
especially despised this creation because it drew 
life not from warmth, but from death. The king 
of all the gods declared that the warrior would 
have no true name, that he would simply be 
Zapathasura, or anathema, as well as a demon 
like those he fought. I should make it clear that 
Zapathasura and the asuratizayya were never 
referred to as true demons, despite the meaning 
of the word asura. True demons lived apart from 
the world and sought to own or devour it. The 
asuratizayya were beasts that chose to emulate the 
true demons, and Zapathasura’s creation is best 
summed up as, “It takes a thief to catch a thief.”
On the brighter side, the gods gifted their 
wunderkind with the ability to command animals, 
withstand tremendous physical punishment and 
manipulate maya directly. Unfortunately, his undead 
nature somewhat proved his undoing. Zapathasura 
envied the living and took far more than he needed 
to survive. He passed this hunger on to his childer 
and ultimately to the Ravnos clan.
I want to highlight something here: The 
asuratizayya were bloodsucking demons risen from 
the dead to feed on the living. Sound familiar? It 
damned well should! The so-called asuratizayya 
are just another clan of Kindred. My first guess 
would be the Gangrel, but they’re mentioned 
later in a different context. I think the would-be 
historian who wrote this poem was confused. I 
also think the Ravnos created a Sabbat of sorts 
thousands of years before the Lasombra and Tzi-
misce thought one up.
The First Brood
Zapathasura Embraced five times in the first cen-
tury or two of his existence. He may have Embraced 
others later, but we’ve found nothing to indicate that. 
All the lineages we’ve uncovered trace their origins 
back to these five childer.
The first is called the Black Mother. The 
Old Lady of the Ravnos clan, she occasionally 
gets confused with Kali Ma, the Hindu goddess 
I do not wish to imply that Gwendolyn has a 
less than complete grasp of the material, but 
my review of the texts does not indicate that the 
Rakshasa was Embraced. The specific reference 
reads, “The Rakshasa drank of Zapathasura’s 
vitae,” but that could simply mean he was a 
ghoul. Of course, this begs the question of how 
the Rakshasa survived without the Ancient’s 
blood. If the Rakshasa were a ghoul, it would 
make him the first of the Sudras and buttress 
the implication that Zapathasura established 
each of the Ravnos jati. It would also explain 
the Rakshasa’s ability to pass as something 
other than Kindred.
A Word from Dr. Mayhew


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
19
Zapathasura’s third childe was more loyal 
than the first two. Known as Chandraputra the 
General, he reputedly led the Ravnos into battle 
against the asuratizayya. He worked with the Black 
Mother to coordinate intelligence, from which 
he developed his strategies. He may have ruled 
over the mortal city-nation of Harappa until it 
went to war against the asuratizayya stronghold 
of Mohenjo-Daro. The Kshatriyas jati traces its 
lineage through Chandraputra.
The fourth childe, Ravana, allegedly bargained 
with the true demons for power greater than he 
could ever earn from his sire. The text is remarkably 
short on specifics, though it does say he vanished 
from the world after striking the deal. Later tales 
describe him using his unearned infernal power to 
undermine the asuratizayya virtues and lure them 
to his service, as they once lured him.
The fifth childe, Ramessu, is the sire of the 
Vaisyas jati. He watched mortals for signs of asura-
tizayya activity in their midst and Embraced solely 
from the merchant class. In time, he also tired of 
fighting and departed for lands west, where he 
established another lineage that knew nothing 
of Zapathasura and his war against the Eastern 
Kindred. There, Ramessu surrounded himself with 
the trappings and titles of nobility, rising above 
the station assigned him in his homeland.
The Gangrel Heresy
A text separate from the Karavalanisha Vrana 
and given no title describes the creation by the 
gods of a second undead monster. She is called the 
most dangerous of warriors, supposedly mastering 
the art of shapeshifting in order to better combat 
the asuratizayya. When the gods told her the price 
of her existence, she cursed them for making her 
an unliving beast and turned her back on the duties 
they had charged her to fulfill.
Enraged, the gods cursed their second creation 
to “dwell among the beasts and find no safe haven 
anywhere in the world.” They also gave her bestial 
features, so that no human would be deceived by 
her appearance. The text names her as Ennoia and 
her brood as the Gangrel.
Other stories that follow relate how the 
Gangrel, enraged at their loss of purpose, can-
not abide the sight of the Ravnos — who, the 
text alleges, never backed down from what was 
required of them. In several times and places, 
the Gangrel and the Ravnos have come to bitter 
blows over everything from territorial boundaries 
to favored vessels.
The Gangrel “heresy” states that the Gangrel 
can be shown their true destiny 
and so shed their unreason-
ing hatred. Tales of such 
redemption are less numer-
ous than accounts of 
conflict, but the 
text seems to 
encourage 
the reader 
to seek 


Clanbook: Ravnos
20
counsel with the Gangrel and teach them their 
svadharma, or true purpose as Kindred.
I’d pay a pretty penny to hear what the Gangrel 
say about us. 
Enoch
This story came in the anonymous care package. 
I don’t understand half of what it means, but I tran-
scribed it for the sake of completeness.
This is the First City, called Enoch, where Caine 
Embraced his childer Enosch, Zillah and Irad, who 
Embraced the Third Generation. Allegedly, at the same 
time the gods made Zapathasura into the first Ravnos, 
one of Caine’s childer Embraced a man by the name of 
Dracian, who was the first of the Ravnos. According to 
this story, Dracian had broken into Irad’s haven by day 
and attempted to steal something of value to him. Irad, 
awakened by this intrusion, Embraced Dracian in the 
hope of using this new childe to spy on his siblings and 
their childer. Irad suspected the other third generation 
neonates (now there’s something you don’t hear every 
night) of plotting against the three members of the second 
generation and their sire.
Dracian, for his part, took to the plot like a fish to 
water. He was at heart a selfish man, and becoming 
one of the typically selfish Kindred only deepened that 
trait. Before long, he joined the Third-Generation cabal 
that sought the hearts’ blood of the second generation, 
and he led the assault against Irad. Sources do not say 
whether Irad (or Enosch and Zillah) were destroyed, 
but the Flood — yes, the biblical Flood that Noah built 
an ark for — followed swiftly on the heels of the Third 
Generation’s betrayal.
Each Antediluvian was cursed for his or her participa-
tion in the assault upon their sires. Dracian, as punishment 
for his selfishness and shortsightedness, was cursed to never 
know satisfaction. In search of that elusive quality, he followed the one member of 
the Third Generation who had not been cursed into the East, to seek what that other 
had allegedly found.
This document also describes a feud with another Antediluvian: Ennoia. 
According to this version, she blamed Dracian for tempting her into the as-
sault, or for attacking her sire — the text is unclear as to which. The language is 
different enough from other sources that it appears to be a later addition, possibly 
an attempt at revision.
Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa
Two cities in the Indus Valley, 400 miles apart and 4,000 years old, correspond to two cities described 
in several places in ancient journals — at least, I think it’s these cities. They and the culture that built 
them are referred to several times in the Karavalanisha Vrana. 


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
21
According to the writings, Ravnos princes ruled 
over several cities in the Indus Valley and nearby, 
and defended them from encroaching asuratiza-
yya. What this really means, I think, is that they 
defended their herds from asuratizayya poaching, 
but their actions are presented as a holy mission. 
I can’t tell if “prince” is used in the context of a 
modern Kindred prince or if it means the literal 
ruler of the city.
The civilization described is quite advanced 
— its people have writing, plumbing, a complex 
theology and a penchant for getting caught in 
the middle of Kindred warfare. Warfare, I might 
add, that was not hindered by the needs of the 
Masquerade. Descriptions of battles between the 
Ravnos and the asuratizayya include details of the 
incredible Disciplines they employed against each 
other. They caused rivers to run with blood, melted 
the flesh of hundreds or thousands of soldiers and 
shattered their bones, made the sun flee the sky 
and any number of wild claims. If they’re true, I’m 
glad these monsters are dust. Let me rephrase that: 
I hope these monsters are dust.
The conflict continued for several centuries (as 
long as 2,000 years in one source, as short as 500 
years in another). It ended in a near-apocalyptic 
clash between the two cities. General Chandraputra 
led his army of Ravnos, ghouls and mortals against 
the asuratizayya who ruled over Harappa. During the 
battle, the two generals called forth otherworldly 
aid, forced “the light of four suns” to shine upon 
each other and turned the river valley red with 
the blood of thousands of mortals and Kindred. 
The final battle reportedly lasted for a year and a 
night, ending when Chandraputra took the head 
of his millennial adversary and condemned its soul 
to the most horrible of Hells.
No mortal in either city survived this war. The 
sites became necropoli, haunted by the spirits of 
those who died defending them. No Ravnos or 
asuratizayya ever returned to the cities after the 
war ended. Ahem.
“Ruled?”
No archeological evidence yet discov-
ered has hinted at such a slaughter in 
a short period of time as the reason for 
either city’s fall. I also find it difficult to 
credit claims that Methuselahs ruled the 
cities in such a manner.
I do not reject out of hand the idea that 
a war between two Methuselahs happened 
on such a scale, and Hindu mythology con-
tains several descriptions of battles among 
various gods and demons that make this 
account look rather tame. I’m not certain I 
believe that any Kindred could have ruled 
openly over a human populace.
Perhaps the Methuselahs gathered 
childer, supporters and ghouls, and those 
fought the battle. The nearby mortals may 
also have served as cattle during the war, 
or fled from the outrageous displays of 
violent power. Perhaps the struggle was a 
relatively minor skirmish, much less epic 
than the Ravnos painted it.
What is Enoch?
That’s a good question. Aside from the 
documents we’ve found, we have very little 
to go on. The material we have implies, as 
Gwendolyn suggests, that Enoch was the first 
city where Kindred walked among mortals. 
Other fragments of Kindred history I’ve seen 
state that all the clans originated in Enoch.
I find it interesting that the Ravnos wrote 
so much to justify their existence as something 
different from the rest of the Kindred. That 
these justifications also provide an apparently 
concrete reason to continue is telling.
I conclude that if Enoch existed — and 
after what I’ve seen, I’m not sure I doubt 
that — the Ravnos Ancient was Embraced in 
that city. Any other explanation is an attempt 
to lend unearned legitimacy to millennia of 
warfare among the undead.


Clanbook: Ravnos
22
Diaspora
In the wake of this confrontation, the ac-
counts portray the surviving Ravnos as shocked at 
the degree of bloodshed and destruction their war 
brought to those they had sworn to protect. More 
realistically, they probably worried about their own 
asses and covered up the stupidity of the conflict in 
pretty excuses. The end result was the first crack in 
Zapathasura and Chandraputra’s constant drive to 
wage war against their rivals. Many Ravnos ques-
tioned whose battle they were fighting, and all too 
often, the answer was “not ours.” 
Zapathasura’s fifth childe, Ramessu, simply 
vanished from his haven one night — apparently, 
the Black Mother refused to assist in any search. 
Just a few centuries later, the Rakshasa turned 
on Zapathasura and departed after a bitter and 
bloody combat with his sire. The Black Mother 
reported to Zapathasura that Ravana had turned 
to unholy powers to forge forbidden pacts, but he, 
too, disappeared. 
The final desertion occurred on the heels of 
Alexander the Great’s arrival in Northern India. 
(I know — force a cynical sigh of relief, as Al-
exander’s appearance in the history constitutes 
Real History! Unfortunately, I’ll have to warn 
you not to grow too comfortable.…) After the 
conqueror’s death, his army returned to the west 
whence they had come. The Black Mother fol-
lowed them.
Along with the desertion of Zapathasura’s 
childer, younger generations also left India for 
lands hopefully less drenched in bloody conflict. 
They traveled east and west, searching out a place 
where they could avoid the endless conflict with 
the asuratizayya. Zapathasura himself fell into 
torpor from despair, leaving the clan in the hands 
of Chandraputra, his only remaining loyal childe. 
The Methuselah Chandraputra tried to restruc-
ture the clan in the wake of mass desertions and a 
complete collapse in morale. He constructed what 
would later become the Path of Paradox, or the 
study of mayaparisatya. Newly Embraced Ravnos 
were indoctrinated in mayaparisatya tenets, which 
demanded an understanding of the clan’s place in 
the world and its members’ devotion to the war 


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
23
against those Kindred who could not or would not 
understand their purpose. Naturally, this included 
the asuratizayya. 
Ramessu
Ramessu turns up in documents that came 
in the care package, authored by Marcia Felicia 
Licinia —yes, I know her name is not strictly cor-
rect according to Roman tradition. You can tell 
her she screwed it up. 
Ramessu was a powerful elder who existed in 
Egypt for centuries and Embraced the lineage that 
later became known as the Alexandrites. These 
Middle Eastern Ravnos traveled extensively, alone 
and with the Rroma who arrived later. Soon after 
reaching Egypt, Ramessu carved a bloody chunk out 
of Setite territory when they tried to eject him. At 
the time, the Setites were battling Lupine clans also 
native to Egypt and lacked the resources to fight 
both. Not long after Ramessu established himself, 
the Setites approached him with a proposed alliance 
against the Lupines.
Over time, Ramessu apparently lost himself in 
reminiscing, to the point that he denied the pass-
ing of Dynastic Egypt. He apparently created an 
“authentic” Egyptian court that survived into the 
Renaissance, despite routine bouts of torpor. Though 
I’m tempted to dismiss this detail as conjecture or 
as proof of Ramessu’s own deranged state, I have 
seen enough supporting documents penned by those 
claiming to be Alexandrites to indulge my doubt. 
Surely, some arid haven somewhere contains the 
wealth of kings and an undead court to spend it, if 
only to spite my bitterness.
The Rakshasa
The Rakshasa, according to all evidence (which 
isn’t much) traveled west to Africa and Embraced 
several childer as he went. He took care to educate 
them, but didn’t stay with them long — at most, a 
decade or two — before moving on. At least four 
distinct Northern African lineages claim descent 
from a trickster figure with no name or home, who 
warned against the sins of his father and cautioned 
them to prepare for the time when “our sire turns 
his wrath upon us and destroys the world.” The 
last evidence of the Rakshasa’s presence in Africa 
is at least 3,000 years old. 
If Not the Rakshasa, 
Then Who?
The accounts about the founder of these 
African lineages do match closely with what 
we know of the Rakshasa. But if — as men-
tioned earlier — he was a ghoul, then how 
could he Embrace more Ravnos? I suspect the 
“trickster figure” in question is Ramessu and 
that some accounts confuse the two — or the 
accounts lead to erroneous conclusions that 
references to one are actually references to the 
other. That sounds characteristic of a “trick-
ster” in my opinion. Alternatively, the trickster 
may be an undocumented childe of Zapatha-
sura’s, or a member of a later generation.
Gwendolyn has a habit of stating her 
assumptions with absolute surety when in 
fact she discusses matters we cannot know 
for certain. She is her own paradox — doubt 
fed by certainty. Keep this in mind when 
reading her history.
The Black Mother
The Black Mother was present for Alexander 
the Great’s arrival. She apparently knew (Rumor? 
Gift of prophecy? Who can say?) of his arrival well 
in advance and watched his progress as he led his 
army into her homeland. She Embraced one of Al-
exander’s soldiers and followed her childe back to 
Europe. The Black Mother spent several centuries 
crossing Europe, ending her sojourn in Southern 
Gaul. The last anyone heard of her was more than 
2,000 years ago, during the Roman Empire’s height.
Ravana
Rumors claim that Ravana, in the service of 
infernal powers, led hundreds of asuratizayya to their 
doom, promising them glory and power they could 
not otherwise gain. According to one apocryphal 
account, Ravana appeared to Zapathasura and of-
fered him power beyond what even the gods would 
give. Ravana claimed he could walk in the sun and 
enjoy mortal delights. Zapathasura struck him, only 
to hit nothing. As Ravana’s taunting laughter slowly 


Clanbook: Ravnos
24
faded, Zapathasura pondered the offer and what it 
could mean. Shortly thereafter, he fell into his first 
prolonged torpor.
The Ancient World
Ramessu’s Alexandrites spread throughout 
Northern Africa, southern Europe and Asia Minor, 
with at least a few participating in that great Brujah 
experiment, Carthage. Most tried to avoid contact 
and conflict with other Kindred, preferring to retain 
their freedom of movement through stealth rather 
than fear or respect.
The Black Mother’s childer spread throughout 
the Roman Empire and made their presence known. 
Though few in number, they got on well with the 
Toreador and Malkavians, the three clans that 
made up some of the most decadent of Kindred in 
that era. These Ravnos eventually became known 
as the Sybarites and founded the Path of Paradox 
that has earned the clan so much distrust and 
outright hatred (though the clan’s predilection 
for vice in general likely also had something to do 
with it). The eldest Sybarites apparently played 
a game where they each, in turn, claimed to be 
the line’s founder. On occasion, they also claimed 
kinship to a famous historical figure — or, if they 
were feeling extreme, claimed to be that figure. 
The game served to keep the line from losing their 
most potent elders, as no Kindred could be certain 
who to look for.
In India, Chandraputra assembled a new or-
der with a stronger commitment to opposing the 
asuratizayya. He’d learned something about Kindred 
psychology and mixed the philosophical rhetoric 
with appeals to the Ravnos’ selfish character. In 
other words, he convinced the clan that it was in 
their best interests to stand and fight rather than 
leave for parts unknown. 
This militancy was helped along by a fresh 
influx of asuratizayya from China, who apparently 
believed it their holy duty to expunge India of all 
Kindred influences. At the same time, Kindred 
of other clans — Gangrel, Lasombra, Malkavi-
ans, Tzimisce and Ventrue primarily — arrived 
in India, probably on the heels of Alexander’s 
army. Some of the new arrivals aligned with the 
Ravnos against the Eastern Kindred, and in time 
a few adopted Ravnos philosophy and cosmology. 
Others bitterly fought Ravnos and asuratizayya for 
dominion. The end result was a vast diversity in 
India’s Kindred presence.
As an interesting side note, the Karavalanisha 
Vrana is based entirely in mythology from this 
period, a few thousand years after Zapathasura 
supposedly had his necromantic apotheosis at the 
hands of gods who wouldn’t be named for a long 
time afterward. Not that I would ever hint that 
the clan founder was a self-serving bastard intent 
on making himself look good in front of the clan 
he created. No more than any other Kindred, at 
any rate. Give a guy godlike power and he decides 
he’s flawless.…
The Roman Empire
The Sybarites’ nights of prominence! Chan-
draputra’s teachings filtered into Europe through 
deliberate action; the ancient Kshatriyas attempted 
to spread the mayaparisatya teachings in hopes of 
drawing rogue lineages back into the fold. The at-
tempt backfired unpleasantly. The Sybarites took the 
teachings and twisted them to support a philosophy 
of unhindered self-indulgence. The Path of Paradox 
became an excuse for them to do whatever they 
wanted, whenever they wanted, to whomever hap-
pened to be convenient. 
Of course, the Path of Paradox didn’t really 
encourage this behavior. The Sybarites were already 
well on their way down that road. The addition of 
a codified ethos that jusitifed their hedonism was 
simply the final straw that ushered in nearly two 
millennia of indulgence and sin. 
It didn’t help matters that Chandraputra’s mes-
sengers slid into the Roman Ravnos’ debauchery and 
vice. In fact, they adopted it wholeheartedly. They 
drank the blood of children, fornicated like still-living 
mortals and bought tangible comforts with money 
they stole from each other, their Kindred fellows and 
wealthy mortals.
At the same time, the Alexandrites melted 
further into the shadows, hoping to avoid the 
reputation their more public cousins were stirring 
up, and the elder Phaedyme established her own 
power base in Gaul. This act led to competition 
with the already present Ventrue and Gangrel 


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
25
— the latter none too pleased with Phaedyme’s 
arrival or her growing influence. About the only 
positive side effect of Phaedyme’s presence was her 
and her childer’s practice of destroying Sybarites 
who intruded on their territory. These killings were 
not acts of philanthropy: Phaedyme’s sire simply 
wanted no intrusions or attacks on her while she 
lay in torpor. Why she saw other Ravnos — even 
the decadent Sybarites — as a threat is not en-
tirely clear. I should note here that the Path of 
Paradox’s prohibition against diablerie on other 
Ravnos was a later addition, probably the work of 
an elder tired of attempts upon his blood.
The Path of Paradox
The Roman Path of Paradox was an odd beast. 
On the one hand, it espoused spiritual purity. On 
the other, it claimed that its adherents could achieve 
such purity through diablerie, theft and murder. 
The path’s tenets further laid out an alternative 
cosmology to Zapathasura’s creation and Dracian’s 
self-imposed exile. It taught that the Antediluvians 
willed themselves into existence. Once they had 
formed, they realized that the world was filled with 
energy and so they began to take it for their use. A 
final Antediluvian created himself in a similar act of 
will and vowed to stop the others before they froze 
the world into an unchanging, joyless place with 
no room for merry activities like cannibalism and 
unbridled bloodlust. 
The Path as laid out in Rome further explained 
that the only way to stop this spiritual stasis was to 
keep the energy in motion — release it. This meant 
that powerful vampires had to be destroyed, preferably 
through diablerie. The ultimate goal of the Path was 
Gehenna, at which the Ravnos Antediluvian would 
destroy the other Antediluvians with the aid of all 
right-thinking Ravnos. 
Of the Ravnos, I know what I’ve read and I 
know my sire, his sire, and a few others. Not very 
many, I admit. As far as I’m aware, not one of us is 
comfortable with the Beast. No matter whether it 
drives us to drain a human dry, go utterly insane 
and kill anything within arm’s reach, or simply to 
grab that trinket that catches our eye regardless of 
the risk. That last one is the most insidious because 
it’s so subtle. Half the time, I’m following through 
on the impulse before I realize what’s happening. 
It’s enough to make you crazy. It seems the debased 
Roman Ravnos, lost in the decadent wonders of 
the Empire, decided to enshrine that impulse rather 
than reject it. 
The Bashirites
You know that commercial about the candy 
bar? The one where one ingredient mixes with 
another to make a better candy bar? Well, this 
was something like that, only the result probably 
was not for the better. A Ravnos Paradox-follower 
happened to be in Israel when a new religion ap-
peared almost overnight. That Ravnos, Bashir, 
claimed to have seen God — which was fine, until 
the Revelation of St. John turned up and Bashir 
ran across it. He took it to heart, melded it with 
Paradox philosophy, and decided that the Path 
of Paradox was actually meant to usher in the 
apocalypse as foretold in the Book of Revelation. 
Bashir passed this doctrine along to his childer 
and ended up creating a millennial cult with the 
fanatical intention to cause the Second Coming 
and bring about the end of the world.
Bashir’s line spread throughout the Middle 
East and gained momentum as the presumed time 
for Christ’s return approached. Various Bashirites 
killed pilgrims, Muslims, Jews and anyone else they 
thought might bring about the Second Coming. 
In one case, a Bashirite caught a peculiar form 
of Jerusalem Syndrome and decided she was the 
Antichrist. 
It eventually became clear even to the most 
blindly devoted Bashirite Ravnos that the Second 
Coming wasn’t happening on schedule. Several 
committed suicide in the wake of that realization. 
Others adopted a more relaxed stance toward both 
the Path of Paradox and Scripture.
The Medieval 
Period
The Ravnos clan underwent its last dramatic 
changes, at least in Europe, during the medieval 
era. Over three centuries or so, the established 
lineages clashed with the Ravnos who arrived with 
the Rroma. Indian journals that match closely with 
the period demonstrate an increased interest in the 
West, along with strong resistance to the Ravnos 
jati system. Specifically, the Chandalas jati decided 


Clanbook: Ravnos
26
they’d rather leave than continue as the equivalent 
of the few Western Caitiff. In truth, they had it 
better. Western Caitiff often suffered destruction as 
soon as they got caught. In India, they were simply 
treated like valueless chattel. 
Rroma Ravnos
The Rroma slowly filtered into Europe over three 
hundred years. A few Rroma kumpaniyi  (nomad/
family groups) brought Ravnos along with them. 
These Ravnos, who had been Chandalas in India, 
felt themselves superior to the Western Ravnos, 
who had diluted their pure blood by Embracing 
those not  of Indian or Rroma descent. The usual 
interactions led to long-term feuds, destruction or 
conversion — the Chandalas were not completely 
without mercy and would often use tactics such as 
branding and boiling (and killing mortal relatives 
and various larcenies…) to recruit Europeans rather 
than destroy them out of hand.
In time, the overall Kindred perception of Rav-
nos as Rroma shifted from “newcomers” to “they’ve 
always been Rroma.” Those who were not became 
exceptions — curiosities. 
The Chandalas, some of whom still gave at least 
lip service to the mayaparisatya teachings, proved 
susceptible to the Sybarites’ version of the Path of 
Paradox. At first, they tried to teach the Sybarites 
the “correct” way, but many — especially the neo-
nates and ancillae — ended up converting to the 
Sybarite view. They already felt poorly served by 
the Indian jati structure. The new Path of Paradox 
erased such distinctions, and many young Ravnos 
were enticed into it simply to rid themselves of 
the “untouchable” stigma they had carried in their 
former homeland.
The Treatment
This tradition first appeared during the medi-
eval era. European Ravnos, many of whom were 
not guilty of the crimes for which they suffered, 
decided to discourage princes from unilaterally exil-
ing Ravnos from their domains or destroying them 
on sight.  These Ravnos spread rumors about the 
Treatment and told stories to other Kindred about 
the terrible fate of Prince So-and-so in Such-and-
such-berg over the mountains yonder who kicked 
Ravnos out for no good reason. They followed up 
with stories of how every deceiver within two or 
three weeks’ travel showed up on the unlucky ruler’s 


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
27
The Inquisition
Everyone remembers the Inquisition. At least, 
many Kindred elders remember, or claim to. It 
was not a pleasant time to be Kindred, but then, 
when is? The Catholic Church managed to dig up 
hundreds of Cainites and put them to the torch — 
almost as if someone planned it that way. In any 
event, we weren’t spared. Sedentary Ravnos were 
caught as easily as members of any other clan, and 
those traveling with the Rroma were as likely to be 
turned in as anyone else. (Assuming the Church 
didn’t see the Gypsies as trouble and investigate 
them without outside encouragement.)
I can’t say the Ravnos never took advantage 
of the Inquisition to dispose of a few inconvenient 
enemies — I’m sure every clan did it at some point 
— but the whole thing usually backfired nastily 
for those Kindred who tried. The carefree times 
were, to put it bluntly, over. The mortals knew we 
were out there and they weren’t going to take it 
anymore. I’m sure more than a few Kindred thought 
the Inquisition was Gehenna.
The Camarilla
Just as it looked like things would never get 
better, a few brave, enterprising Kindred stood 
up and showed the rest of us that we had a bet-
ter option, that we could survive with only a few 
sacrifices. As the histories go, Kindred of all clans 
were invited to join the new social club — the 
Camarilla — and become a part of a “worldwide 
society of Kindred,” whatever that’s supposed to 
mean. I admit, it looks good on paper, but it’s hor-
ribly fucked-up in practice.
I want to note here that a few Ravnos elders 
recorded their experiences at the first conclaves 
held to decide the form the Camarilla would take. 
It’s true that all Kindred were invited to join, but 
it’s also true that Kindred of certain clans were 
invited to go to hell (subtly or otherwise). The 
Camarilla’s creators saw it as a club for certain 
clans; while members of the others were welcome, 
they couldn’t expect the same blessings.
Given some of the behavior attributed to the 
Ravnos, I can’t exactly blame the founders for not 
wanting our clan in their little social circle. Still, I 
doorstep and turned his domain into a waking hell. 
With each retelling, the description became more 
harrowing and bizarre. At some point, the stories 
became reality. I have no idea where the first real 
Treatment happened, but it was viciously effective. 
The princes found the Ravnos no less welcome than 
before, but were less willing to kick them out before 
they misbehaved.
In a nutshell, the Treatment was a reactionary 
response from offended Ravnos who felt that if they 
couldn’t get even the minimal respect most clans 
paid each other, they’d make those clans sorry for 
the snub. Resentful Ravnos would send out a call 
for help, and mendicant or indigent (or legitimately 
blacklisted) fellow Ravnos would converge on 
the spiteful city. For weeks or months at a time, 
the avenging Ravnos would run amok, indulging 
their desires as they saw fit. I’m sure you’re well 
acquainted with our penchant for taboo — now 
imagine a score of Ravnos, all having their way 
with a given city. Killings soared, the invaders 
stole everything not nailed down, they seduced 
husbands and wives, bread was poisoned or the 
grain used to make it found curiously infested with 
ergot… the list goes on.
These kinds of tactics did little to help the 
Ravnos build a better reputation, but worked bril-
liantly as a method of bullying others into never 
letting such things happen again. Believe me, these 
documents make no bones about how quickly the 
princes of the Long Night acceded once their do-
mains became dens of sin and iniquity.
The Others
The Phaedymites reached their height in the 
medieval era. Many of Phaedyme’s descendents 
chose to adopt the tenets of chivalry in favor of 
other paths. They were never a populous lineage, 
but they probably exercised the most self-control 
among the Western jati.  The Yoryari, a small 
splinter faction composed of Sybarites who rejected 
their fellows’ more self-indulgent code of conduct, 
eventually adopted the “pure” Path of Paradox that 
the Rroma brought with them. The Bashirites met 
their end as a Western jati and largely scattered into 
the Alexandrites and Sybarites, with a few joining 
the Rroma.


Clanbook: Ravnos
28
can’t help but wonder, why those seven? In any event, 
the Setites and Ravnos weren’t exactly high on the 
popularity scale, not with the founding clans. As for 
the Assamites and the Giovanni, you don’t invite 
cannibals into your home.
Some will tell you their clans chose indepen-
dence. I think they did, but only because they had 
no other choice.
Age of Exploration
While the Camarilla suffered its growing pains 
and the Inquisition began to slow down (at least as 
far as destroying Kindred), the European nations 
were building empires. Because most of Europe was 
already explored, “civilization” traveled west and 
south and established colonies in Africa, North 
America and South America. Naturally, because 
exploration involved travel, the Ravnos weren’t 
far behind. 
With the Camarilla elders and their steely-
taloned claims of dominion choking all life out 
of Europe, the so-called New World represented a 
fresh opportunity. Many Ravnos doubtless found 
the chance to take advantage of the birth of new 
nations exciting — and dangerous. Still, no mat-
ter how bad things got on the new frontiers, the 
Ravnos who went there probably found their new 
existence preferable to dealing with stuffy Camarilla 
princes who had the weight of seven clans behind 
their proclamations. No, the Camarilla’s authority 
didn’t make the Ravnos any more welcome in Eu-
rope than we’d been before. In fact, more princes 
showed a willingness to boot us — especially if we 
didn’t have the clear backing of mentors, Ravnos 
or otherwise. The Rroma had the advantage be-
cause they traveled in relatively large groups, big 
enough to make the princes wary of keeping them 
out. Instead, local rulers merely “encouraged” the 
Rroma to move on fairly quickly.
In Africa, things were different. The Ravnos had 
lived there all along, competing with the Setites, 
Assamites, Nosferatu and Gangrel for territory and 
existing among civilizations largely forgotten by 
mortal society. With the rise of colonization and 
national expansion, things changed considerably. 
Predictably, the Camarilla followed their mortal 
counterparts to all four corners of the world and 
established their petty fiefdoms alongside the new-
born colonies.


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
29
The New World
I want to make something clear — we’re not 
exactly like the Gangrel. Where a Gangrel will cross 
a mountain range to see the valley on the other side, 
her Ravnos counterpart will cross a mountain range 
to put the mountains between her and any enemies 
she left behind. I’m not saying the Ravnos set out 
to make enemies, but it seems almost inevitable. If 
a Ravnos is in town and something bad happens, 
the Ravnos gets blamed. Even when we’re on our 
best behavior, we can run into trouble just for be-
ing in the area. 
I want to establish this point to put Ravnos 
migration to the New World in the proper con-
text. Not all of the Europeans who came to North 
America, for example, migrated because they had 
wanderlust. Many traveled west to leave their re-
spective pasts behind. We traveled right alongside 
them, for exactly the same reason. The New World 
had no elder princes with firmly entrenched power 
structures and support networks built up over cen-
turies. At best, the ancillae princes had only been 
present for decades, and were often grateful for 
support no matter the source.
Most Ravnos traveled to the Americas in 
search of domains where the princes were simply 
not strong enough to afford the kind of indul-
gence and arrogance the European elders exuded 
like sweat. It makes me wonder what happened 
in the interim.
Renaissance
During this age of exploration, Europe expe-
rienced what some later called a “rebirth of the 
life of the mind.” The Renaissance arrived — a 
time of artistic and literary revolution, a time 
when science and reason began to triumph over 
base superstition. Of course, that era also saw the 
birth of the “divine right of rule” concept. Can’t 
get them all right, I suppose.
To the Ravnos, the Renaissance meant in-
creased commerce. We feed on it — not like the 
Ventrue, who desire to own it, or the Giovanni, 
who treat it like a big game (and whoever dies 
with the most toys... probably still fucks his sister). 
Where there’s commerce, there’s vice. Where 
there’s vice, there are Ravnos. No matter how sick 
and twisted the hobby you can name, I guarantee 
some Ravnos somewhere is trying to improve on it. 
It’s what we do. Most of the clan settled for more 
pedestrian variations, engaging in acts of piracy 
and highway robbery.
The Sybarites of the Renaissance had a par-
ticularly good time. Much of that jati were in the 
process of joining up with the newborn Sabbat, 
but more than a few continued playing in the 
same arenas they’d occupied since Phoenicia was 
a nation. Slaving was one favorite hobby among 
the Sybarites. Europe and the colonies had made 
enslaving the less “civilized” members of other racial 
groups a booming business. Of course, the Sybarites 
weren’t the only Ravnos involved in the slave trade. 
Several Ravnos had the bright idea of selling their 
mortal relatives into bondage — just goes to show 
you how well Ravnos shilmulo got along with the 
mortal Rroma. This practice wasn’t widespreadl; it 
primarily happened in Eastern Europe, but it lasted 
for centuries.
The Sabbat
One of the most common threads in the Rav-
nos ethos, paths and philosophical thought is the 
concept of freedom — a peculiar or perhaps oddly 
appropriate emphasis, given that the Ravnos clan 
(at least in India) incorporates a rigid social struc-
ture that mirrors India’s caste system. With such a 
powerful bent toward freedom — freedom to travel, 
freedom to take what we want — it’s something of 
a surprise that more Ravnos didn’t join the Sabbat 
when it formed. 
More than any other, the Path of Paradox born 
in Rome lives up to its name. It enjoins its followers 
not to follow any expression of Kindred society. The 
Traditions? Screw them. Elders? Ignore them or eat 
them. Why, then, did the largest group of Ravnos 
converts to the Sabbat come from the Sybarites 
— the lineage that most vehemently spread the 
Roman Path within the clan? The Sybarites were 
infamous for their vicious and self-serving ways 
(as if other Kindred aren’t more or less the same). 
Apparently, the Sabbat provided a structure that 
allowed them to better indulge their baser urges. 
Interestingly enough, the Path of Paradox is appar-
ently unknown in the Sabbat. It may have mutated 
into something more acceptable to Sabbat sensibili-
ties, but I couldn’t swear to it.


Clanbook: Ravnos
30
Other Sabbat recruits came mainly from branches 
of the Ravnos that weren’t Rroma-dominated, which 
further reinforced the perception among other Kin-
dred that the Ravnos (as opposed to antitribu) were 
all Rroma. The Sabbat’s rhetoric, heady stuff for 
its time, provided an outlet for those Kindred who 
didn’t care for the shape the Camarilla had taken. 
Not surprising that so many Ravnos opted to follow 
the Sabbat, even if the freedom it gave them came 
at the cost of ideological slavery.
Were they right to do so? From what I understand, 
a large percentage (not population, obviously) of 
survivors from the Week of Nightmares are Sabbat. 
Maybe they made the right choice.
Industrial 
Revolution
The Industrial Revolution brought many changes 
to the Ravnos. During this time frame, the Rroma 
Ravnos first Embraced giorgio — non-Rroma — in 
large numbers, and did so without grave repercussions 
from their elders.
Among the rest of the clan — well, if you’re 
already into criminal activities, it helps to have 
a large pool from which to draw idle hands. The 
onset of industrialization may not have made for 
many of those, but it did make for hands that pre-
ferred being idle — quite apart from people who 
simply couldn’t find honest work. Industrialization 
also benefitted criminals by increasing the flow 
of wealth. Manufacturing means more goods and 
more money to buy them.  More money means 
more chances for corruption.
As organized crime grew like a cancer on the 
world’s industry, the Ravnos took advantage of it. 
Why? Well, when your blood drives you to steal, 
it can’t hurt to take up thieving as an occupation. 
That’s the obvious reason. I’m sure everyone has his 
or her individual ones as well.
Sect Warfare
In the midst of all this progress, the Sabbat built 
its strength and began lashing out at the Camarilla 
for wrongs committed against Kindred who had been 
destroyed before most of the Sabbat Cainites had 
been Embraced (but revolution is rarely a logical af-
fair). The new Camarilla domains in North America 


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
31
were ill-prepared to defend against the initial wave 
of Sabbat strikes, and several cities changed hands 
(in some cases, several times). 
This state of affairs didn’t make unlife any easier 
for the Ravnos. Freedom of movement is hard to 
maintain when a fanatical sect of apocalyptic sons 
of bitches wants to recruit or eat you. The threat of 
the Treatment wasn’t enough to keep them off, be-
cause they rarely had any qualms about killing those 
administering the Treatment. On the other hand, 
it’s next to impossible to patrol all of an urban area 
in hopes of catching a few random Kindred trying 
to slip through.
Aside from a few skirmishes, the Ravnos managed 
to avoid the sibling rivalry between the Camarilla 
and the Sabbat. For once, our independent status 
proved more of a blessing than a bludgeon for the 
Camarilla elders to wield against us.
War
The Industrial Revolution brought the world 
many wonders previously unseen, including the 
mass carnage made possible by modern weaponry. 
Napoleon’s march across Europe was a chilling 
preview of the destruction to come. The Ameri-
Papa Legba
Papa Legba was reputedly shipped to America on one of the many slaving ships, one 
of the lucky few who survived. As a mortal, this intensely spiritual man was among the 
more frightening practitioners of voudoun. He had a fearsome reputation throughout the 
mortal population in the American southeast, and eventually attracted the attention of a 
Ravnos —the Right Reverend Jebediah Ezekiel Withers, a traveling revivalist preacher. 
Reverend Jebediah was famous for delivering impressive sermons well into the dark morning 
hours. He wanted to find this “voodoo man” and prove to him the falsehood of his ways. 
When Jebediah met the man who would become Papa Legba, he tried to use the pow-
ers of the blood to convince the houngan that his “heathen witchery” was false. Jebediah 
failed, but before that meeting was over, another Ravnos walked the night.
Papa Legba is rarely seen, but often heard. He uses his natural charm to earn the 
trust of mortal and Kindred alike, then uses that trust to take whatever he wants. He’s 
a past master at turning others’ expectations against them in a way that absolves him 
from fault — claiming that they didn’t consider the full ramifications of their bargain, 
for example, or suggesting that their own behavior nullified any deal struck. He also 
travels under many names and faces, preferring not to let anyone know that he is Papa 
Legba, the trickster loa.
can Civil War ended some of the Ravnos’ most 
lucrative slaving operations (not that I’m about 
to shed tears over that). With the advent of the 
Gatling gun, also during the American Civil War, 
and aviation in the early 20th century, humanity 
continued to refine its ability to inflict the great-
est amount of bloodshed in the least amount of 
time. Not surprisingly, human awareness of (and 
consequently, animosity toward) Kindred declined 
during this period. It’s hard to regard Kindred as 
the preeminent threat when mortal armies are 
pumping mustard gas into trenches and burning 
the faces from strapping young men prepared to 
die for their countries.
The First World War
It’s difficult to describe the effect World War 
I had on Kindred society. The conflict was largely 
restricted to one continent, but that continent 
contained the heart of the Camarilla’s power. The 
Kaiser’s army rolled over Europe one country at 
a time, sowing carnage in the mortal sphere that 
forced the Camarilla to adapt its accustomed uses 
of the power it wielded among Kindred. These 
events didn’t affect the Ravnos much, though, as 
our clan simply moved out of the way. Many of 


Clanbook: Ravnos
32
the European Ravnos by this time were of Rroma 
descent and traveled with the nomadic families. 
Princes and elders distressed over the prospect 
of war coming to their precious domains worried 
much less about Ravnos travelers, especially those 
who could bring news of troop movements and 
warnings of impending attack.
The Second World War
The first historical event of the 20th century 
to have a real impact on the Ravnos was World 
War II. Travel in Europe became more difficult 
as the German Wehrmacht slowly ground the 
Continent under panzer treads and Stuka-carried 
bombs. Even so, few Ravnos had any difficulty 
finding someplace safe to wait out the combat 
when it caught up with them — at least, not 
until the Holocaust.
Porrajmos
Porrajmos is the Rroma word for the Holocaust. 
To many people in the modern world, the Holo-
caust happened to the Jews. They forget that it 
also happened to the Rroma. The Nazis carried out 
their genocidal practices against all the  so-called 
mongrel races or those they deemed “unfit” to 
breed. For the European Ravnos, Porrajmos was a 
disaster. The Nazis had tracked Rroma movements 
throughout Europe for some time, and rounded 
up kumpaniya after kumpaniya. Along with the 
Rroma prisoners, they gathered up dozens, possibly 
as many as a few hundred, Ravnos shilmulo who 
traveled with the Rroma and used them as cover. 
I could manufacture a conspiracy theory accus-
ing the German Tremere or Ventrue of a secret 
plot to wipe out the Ravnos — but I don’t think 
it happened that way. The Holocaust was bigger 
than the Kindred could ever be. Certainly, some 
took advantage of it. The death camps probably 
made great places to feed without undue notice, 
as much as I hate to say it.
Some Kindred like to take credit for mortal 
history. Anytime anything significant happens, 
a Toreador, Tremere or Ventrue will pop up and 
say “We did that!” I suppose it makes them feel 
useful. I haven’t heard of any who took credit for 
the Holocaust, however, outside of a few deranged 
individuals. Lawrence says he’s met elders who 
would gladly lay claim to any atrocities they have 
committed, but they will not claim this one. 


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
33
To mortal perceptions, the Jews suffered 
more than anyone under the Holocaust. To the 
Kindred, more Ravnos probably met Final Death 
in the Second World War than did members of 
any other clan. Convenient, perhaps. I see it 
as a lesson, but I haven’t figured out what the 
lesson is yet. 
Stories still circulate through the clan about 
Ravnos who ended up in the camps and Embraced 
every Rroma — or in some cases, every prisoner 
— they could find. As the tales go, the whole 
crew then led an assault on the guards. If this hap-
pened even half as often as the stories claim, the 
Holocaust would be a footnote in mortal history. 
I have no doubt it happened once or twice, and 
those events were inflated over the decades until 
half of Poland had Ravnos-infested death camps. 
Some Ravnos who survived that time and re-
sided in Europe blame the Tremere for the event, 
calling the Holocaust a ruse to destroy the Ravnos 
clan. Kindred are, as I’ve mentioned earlier, an 
egotistical lot. I cannot find it plausible that the 
warlocks would go to the trouble of slaughtering 
millions of mortals just to wipe out one clan. Well, 
I take that back. I can see it, but I’m not sure such 
an act is logistically possible. Kindred are not the 
predators they claim to be. They’re parasites, de-
pendent on the mortals, not the shepherds of the 
children of Seth.
The Modern Era
After the Second World War, things settled 
down, relatively speaking. The superpowers snarled 
at each other while the former Allies carefully 
defanged Germany and Japan. The eldest Ravnos 
awakened to find a strange new world, with an India 
just freeing itself from British rule. In conjunction 
with the British Empire’s withdrawal from India, the 
asuratizayya renewed their efforts to expel Western 
Kindred from the nation. The elders fought back, 
initially with considerable success, as the Eastern 
Kindred were relatively young and unprepared to 
deal with older and cannier attackers.  This conflict 
escalated as stronger asuratizayya came to assist in 
the war and the Ravnos Embraced more childer to 
serve as cannon fodder.
The ‘60s
For the American Ravnos among the Rroma, 
this decade was an interesting time. The Rroma 
were settling down all over, forcing the Ravnos to 
settle down along with them or find another meal 
ticket. By the early 1970s, a large percentage of the 
itinerant Rroma may well have ended their traveling 
days because of their bloodsucking relatives. This 
change meant that fewer Rroma were available to 
provide cover for Ravnos who wanted it. The pri-
mary alternatives to the Ravnos’ vanishing lifestyle 
were to join the Sabbat, join the Camarilla, or join 
the anarchs. 
Or, in some cases, join the Hell’s Angels — 
though it’s hard to join a biker gang if you can’t 
come out by day. These guys do runs night and day, 
and while they won’t look at you too strangely if you 
only come out at night, they won’t put their own 
recreation on hold just to accommodate someone 
who doesn’t want a tan. Many Ravnos who took up 
the biker look did so in groups, to give themselves 
decent cover stories. At least, they did until police 
and highway patrols started cracking down on groups 
of motorcyclists.
Hippies offered another popular option for 
itinerant Ravnos — deadheading was apparently 
a popular pastime for Ravnos well into the 1990s, 
at least until Jerry Garcia’s death. Hippies were 
already strange enough, viewed with suspicion by 
the “straight” population and otherwise sufficiently 
odd that a few additional peculiarities didn’t stand 
out too much. Ravnos and hippies ultimately proved 
something of a volatile mix. Indulging in chemi-
cal recreation became a popular vice among the 
younger Ravnos, with the expected consequences. 
I may be going out on a limb here, but I think it’s a 
little unwise to give undead bloodsuckers who can 
conjure images through sheer force of will access 
to hallucinogens. 
The ‘80s
During this decade in India, the conflict with 
Eastern Kindred started to really pick up for the 
first time in centuries. The Kshatriyas experi-
mented with mass Embracing as a weapon against 
the asuratizayya, with mixed results. The asura-
tizayya appeared in unprecedented numbers, for 


Clanbook: Ravnos
34
which the Indian Ravnos were often unprepared. 
Apparently, Eastern Kindred can’t just Embrace 
others, as the Ravnos can — they have some other 
method of defying Final Death. Still, when faced 
with swelling global populations, even the more 
rigorous asuratizayya “Embrace” results in foes more 
numerous than before.
Bhopal
One account records a plan to Embrace several 
hundred mortals in a single night and cover the event 
up in what would appear to be an industrial accident. 
What really happened? In 1984, the Kshatriyas 
swept into the city of Bhopal and gathered up 
mortals for the Embrace to send them as a massive 
Kindred wave against a potent asuratizayya who 
posed a serious threat to the status quo. The plan 
was to Embrace, force the childer to feed on their 
families, and manufacture an incident to cover up 
the disappearances and deaths. 
As inevitably happens, someone screwed up. 
At the end of the day, more than 40 tons of poison 
gas killed over 4,000 people and injured 50,000 
more. On the brighter side, the toxin also polluted 
the asuratizayyas’ herds and weakened the Eastern 
Kindred long enough for the Ravnos and their can-
non fodder to destroy them. Hooray for our team. 
The masterminds who thought this up were aware 
of Union Carbide’s poor safety standards, but un-
derestimated just how bad the situation was when 
they sabotaged the plant.
The ‘90s
In India, the ancients awakened and walked 
again. Their childer — the elders — prepared the 
way for them. At the same time, Indian Ravnos 
traveled east and west in search of those Ravnos 
who had left or never known India. When they 
found what the clan had become — the European 
shilmulo with pretensions to mysticism through a 
false Path of Paradox, the American Ravnos with 
no knowledge whatsoever of the clan’s reason for 
existence, and so many others who did not even 
try to resist the vices imposed or facilitated by the 
Beast — they took action.
In a reversal of events centuries before, when 
the Sybarites’ flawed Path spread through the 
newcomers, this wave of newcomers converted 
the Western Ravnos to mayaparisatya. Perhaps the 
followers of the Sybarites’ Path of Paradox were no 
longer satisfied with an ethos that claimed “all is 
permissible, nothing is forbidden”? It’s possible. I 
can’t imagine an unlifetime of excess as remotely 
satisfying, never mind centuries of it. 
The converts may also have found the alterna-
tives less than desirable. The Ravnos who left India 
to spread the good word were often quite old, very 
powerful and extremely intolerant of youthful indis-
cretions. My impression is that the converts could 
choose to adapt or die. Even with such a traumatic 
reason for evolution, it took years for the change 
to make it as far as America’s West Coast or South 
America. I believe that by 1998, a majority of the 
Path of Paradox followers had converted to the 
“proper” path. Timely, no doubt.
Accompanying the conversions were the rumors 
of powerful Methuselahs of the Fourth and Fifth 
Generations awakening and tearing a frightening 
swath of destruction through their enemies in India. 
In fact, if the journals can be believed, hundreds 
— if not thousands — of Ravnos were Embraced, 
sent against the asuratizayya and destroyed within 
a matter of nights at a time, over the final decade 
of warfare before Zapathasura’s awakening. 
The Week of 
Nightmares
The week of the Ravnos Antediluvian’s awak-
ening — by whatever name you want to call it — was 
a literal week of nightmares. Ravnos Disciplines 
flew out of control as even the weakest neonates 
effortlessly produced illusions and skilled elders 
created images without the conscious intent of 
doing so. Few Ravnos could take advantage of this 
potency as visions from the Antediluvian’s clash 
with its enemies overwhelmed them. 
I saw my sire and his sire suffer from literal 
waking nightmares and bring them to “life” before 
they could get things under control. Lawrence’s at-
tempts to explain the appearance of a many-headed 
monster in battle with a tiger and a dragon in the 
middle of an LAX-bound airplane were amus-
ing, but they didn’t help his reputation. Further 
evidence, all of it anecdotal, indicates that such 
incidents happened to Ravnos around the world. 
At the time, we worried more that someone was 
slipping PCP-LSD cocktails to our herd, but ab-
stinence didn’t seem to help.


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
35
On the fourth night, it got really bad. I guess 
the best “new age” way to describe the event is 
as if a psychic bomb went off. It happened during 
the day, but all of us awoke when it hit. I didn’t 
get much rest for that day. Come nightfall, things 
grew much worse. When I arose, I found Karl, more 
tense than I’ve ever seen him, sitting in front of 
the television and flipping channels like it was an 
Olympic sport. At first, I was annoyed. But as I 
watched, I realized how wonderfully delicious his 
blood must taste, as well as how surely he deserved 
destruction. I can’t explain the loathing that pen-
etrated to my bones and seemed as natural as… 
well, as natural as anything else we do. 
On one level, I wanted nothing more than to 
bite down on Karl and devour his soul. On an-
other level, I knew doing that would be the King 
Kamahameha of all bad ideas. I don’t know how 
long I stood there before Karl turned and saw me. 
He cured me of my indecision — he attacked me. 
Between desperation and serendipity, we man-
aged not to destroy each other, but it was close 
for awhile. We both left for other places to stay 
(without telling each other or the good doctor, 
who’d fucking better not claim this story as his, or 
Zapathasura’s destruction will seem like Migraine 
Headache #15, and I hope I make myself perfectly 
clear) until the fit passed.
The thirst and rage lasted for four nights. I’ve 
never felt a rage like that before and I hope never 
to feel it again — a filthy, driven rage, backed by a 
hatred 10,000 years old and encrusted with enough 
emotional baggage to sink Asia. Such fury called 
to mind the end of the world.
Who knew that was exactly what it heralded? 
By the time we began to suspect, we knew it was 
big, but until Lawrence got his care package, we 
didn’t know just how big it was, and is.
Two months ago, I — we, all five of us — stood 
on the plain in Bangladesh where Zapathasura (or 
Ravana, or Dracian, or whatever name you care 
to throw its way) fought its last battle. We found 
the spot where it was destroyed by the light of four 
suns, where — by all the evidence we can gather 
— someone detonated nuclear weapons. We have 
a scrapbook of news reports from the time, about 
the worst typhoon to strike this area in more than 
a century. They don’t tell the half of it.


Clanbook: Ravnos
36
Looking over the area, it’s clear that someone 
or something swept through afterward and tried to 
hide the evidence. They were thorough, but not 
completely so. We found enough to tell us what 
we needed to know — that at least three or four 
powerful, or should I say godlike, things battled 
here. That reality, maya as some would call it, 
was torn here. 
I wish I could find the words to convey with 
sufficient gravity what I’m trying to say. In the 
simplest terms, “this is the first battlefield of 
Gehenna.” I can’t begin to convey the profound 
nature of this fact — the end of the world started 
here. How could I? It’s too big. What keeps me up 
wondering all day is, “Where next?” Then I wonder, 
“What the hell can I do about it?”
Fallout 
In the weeks that followed those days of hell, 
we learned a few things. First, a lot of Ravnos ap-
parently went mad for no good reason. We couldn’t 
reach most of the Ravnos Lawrence and Karl kept in 
touch with (and still haven’t managed it). Lawrence 
consulted some experts regarding Indian mythology 
and its imagery, from which we learned that people 
all over had visions of Zapathasura’s swan song. The 
Fortean Times was abuzz with stories of weird events 
during that hellish week and I suspect I’m barely 
touching the tip of the iceberg. 
I know you’re wondering about the other 
clans — how did they react to all this? As far as I 
can tell, they didn’t. That is, most of them don’t 
have a clue. A few have a clue, but it’s incomplete. 
Some Kindred think all of us are dust, but they 
don’t know why. Some know more details than I 
do. Some might suspect the truth and are afraid to 
speak of it. In the Camarilla, I don’t blame them. 
Those ostriches aren’t about to admit Gehenna’s on 
their doorstep until it’s sitting on the sofa, guzzling 
all the beer and putting out cigarettes on the coffee 


Chapter One: Agreed Upon Lies
37
table. Even then, they’ll probably try to pass it off 
as their undersocialized geek uncle.
We’re the first, but more will follow. When one 
of the Camarilla clans falls, you can bet they’ll take 
notice. They’ll blame it on the Sabbat, but at least 
they might start doing something.
Prophecy
What’s next? Good question. Back in India, all 
our best evidence showed that the eldest Ravnos 
were destroyed during the Week of Nightmares. All 
well and good, but now we’re not so sure. Stories 
filter around and a few of us still talk — we have 
to, to survive. Stories about the legendary Durga 
Syn pop up every so often, linked to rumors about 
the Nosferatu. Maybe they’re next? 
Durga Syn isn’t the only one, either. Part of 
this history was gleaned from work completed 600 
to 800 years ago, by a Ravnos who was ancient 
then. We received it in the mail before we went to 
India. Why? Who sent it? I don’t know, but I have 
suspicions. 
Does the idea make me comfortable? No. The 
other Grave Robbers and I take great comfort in 
the idea that all the oldest, most powerful Ravnos 
bit the dust two years ago. I just don’t like thinking 
that one of those ancient bastards is ready to rise 
up and start using us in some private war or other, 
pretending it’s a holy duty that comes part and 
parcel with the blood.
Wake up and welcome Kali. Gehenna’s 
almost here.


Clanbook: Ravnos
38


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
39
Chapter Two: 
On the Art of 
Being Ravnos
The universe seems bankrupt as soon as we begin to discuss the characters of individuals.
— Henry David Thoreau
The Ravnos really don’t fit one tidy definition, 
not because the charlatans lack common traits, but 
simply because humanity — and by extension, the 
Kindred — have come up with so many crimes. That’s 
right, every Ravnos is a criminal of some sort, whether 
that crime is based in human or Kindred society or 
both. No one has a reason to sugarcoat that simple 
truth, no matter how uncomfortable it is. If it seems 
bigoted or insensitive, it is — because all too often, 
the Ravnos’ crimes are only against the principles 
of others.
Ravnos usually congregate in small broods or packs 
ostensibly led by one who has probably Embraced 
the others. The Ravnos do this for safety in numbers, 
although many put on a show of blood loyalty. Not 
all Ravnos believe in this so-called obligation within 
the clan; many use it primarily to convince clanmates 
to do favors for them.
In the wake of the Week of Nightmares, however, 
surviving Ravnos often eschew contact with other 
Ravnos, fearing a recurrence of the madness that 
consumed the clan and destroyed so many. Even those 
Ravnos who choose to associate with their broods are 
wary of a recurrence. Few will discuss the matter with 
other Kindred under any circumstances.
The Ravnos 
Embrace
The Ravnos treat the Embrace in different ways 
depending on which segment of the clan is involved. 
Indian Ravnos and Path of Paradox adherents see the 
Embrace as a metaphysical sacrifice to one or more gods 
so the childe can move on to fulfil her svadharma, as 
well as assist other Kindred in the fulfillment of theirs. 
Among many of the younger American lineages, the 
Embrace is usually given without much ceremony — 
it depends on personal taste and the individual sire’s 
background and preferences.


Clanbook: Ravnos
40
Ravnos create new childer for a vast number of 
reasons. Some Ravnos select a criminal mind as care-
fully as an artist seeks a protégé, while others look for 
candidates who can assist them in their own schemes. 
In many cases, a Ravnos sire expects his childer to 
stay around for a long time — before the Week of 
Nightmares, many Ravnos structured their broods as 
families, albeit dysfunctional ones. During the disaster, 
most such families were wiped out in blood-crazed 
frenzies. Of the few that survived, many have not been 
heard from since.
The Ravnos clan as a whole adheres to no single 
rule that all must follow — everything is fairly infor-
mal among most of them. Only those who turn their 
Damnation into a religion — the Paradox followers 
—have codified who, when, how and why a childe 
receives the Embrace. Among the Indian Ravnos, 
a prospective sire petitions her sire for the right to 
Embrace. With the permission and blessing of both 
her sire and the eldest Ravnos in her city, she brings 
her new childe into the fold. 
New childer of Paradox followers are taught the 
clan’s history and duties — a small degree of indoctri-
nation into the Paradox mindset — and typically are 
released to become full shilmulo within two decades, 
usually much sooner. Neonates aren’t expected to turn to 
Paradox before the first century of unlife passes, nor are 
they pressed to accept it. They are, however, expected to 
abide by its tenets when in the presence of their elders.
Indian Mass Embraces
Sabbat-style mass Embraces are the primary excep-
tion to the Indian mode of Embrace. The practice is 
deemed brutish by those few outsiders aware of it, but 
some Ravnos feel — prompted by their conflicts with 
the Cathayans — that mass Embrace tactics are nec-
essary for victory. As the number of Eastern Kindred 
increases and the fighting becomes more intense, the 
Eastern Ravnos are more willing to Embrace a dozen 
or so in a single night to use as cannon fodder. These 
unfortunates are not expected to survive, and are oc-
casionally destroyed after they’ve served their purpose. 
Some elders protest this tactic, stating that it violates 
the tenets of Paradox and the mortals’ own destinies.
Jati and 
Bloodlines
Among the most traditional Ravnos, mortal lineage 
is at least as important as Kindred. Among the eldest, 
it defines the Kindred’s role in the clan, much to the 
chafing of neonate sensibilities. 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
41
Jati is the Hindi word for “caste,” and refers to a 
Ravnos’ lineage within the clan. Several Ravnos jati 
exist, originating from nearly every continent and 
ranging in age from the most ancient to a matter of 
decades. Naturally, the eldest lines hold more status 
than the newer (some would say “vulgar”) lines. Few 
Ravnos agree on what a jati should be, let alone whether 
any given line constitutes a valid caste. Most neonates 
could care less about the entire question of pedigree.
The Elder Lines
The following lineages are the original Ravnos 
lines and were prominent in India up until the Week 
of Nightmares. Some probably still exist, but not in 
sufficient numbers to make a large difference. Nearly 
all of the Indian elders were destroyed.
The Ravnos elders in India tried to enforce strict 
rules about which Ravnos could Embrace which mor-
tals, often in much the same way as the princes in 
Western cities. For Indian practitioners of the Path 
of Paradox, however, the strictures carried the weight 
of the Antediluvian’s words, or so the elders liked to 
claim. Ravnos were forbidden to Embrace mortals 
who were not part of their own caste — Ravnos 
Brahman could Embrace only Brahman, Kshatriyas 
could Embrace only mortal Kshatriyas, and so on. 
In truth, few Ravnos obeyed the stricture and many 
elders chose to assume the neonates came from the 
appropriate castes. With the conflict against the 
asuratizayya a constant threat, the Ravnos were more 
interested in results.
 Brahman
The Brahman Ravnos have a gift of sight that 
the other jati do not, and often use it to divine the 
future or the locations of their enemies. The Brah-
man also consider themselves the keepers of the 
“Way of Mayaparisatya,” or the Path of Paradox. 
Among the Indian Ravnos, the Brahman are the 
spiritual advisors and philosophers of the clan, and 
often serve as advisors to other jati.
Brahman replace Fortitude with Auspex in 
their clan Disciplines, and are otherwise identical 
to other Ravnos.
Kshatriyas
The Kshatriyas are the traditional warriors, and 
most Ravnos in India belong to this jati. The elder 
Kshatriyas traditionally outlined strategy for the war 
against the asuratizayya, and many were among the 
deadliest Kindred in India. Despite tradition, many 
Embraced British soldiers and officers while India 
remained part of the British Empire. After the British 
departure, many continued to look outside India for 
competent soldiers to bring into the asuratizayya war. 
In recent centuries, the Kshatriyas sometimes 
employed the “mass Embrace” strategy. They swept 
through a neighborhood or village and Embraced as 
many mortals as they could, often adding several dozen 
to their ranks over a single night. Those considered 
unworthy were given to the fledglings as their first 
meals. The Kshatriyas conducted such mass Embraces 
as preludes to massive assaults against packs of asura-
tizayya or individually powerful Eastern Kindred in 
an attempt to overwhelm them while the truly skilled 
Kshatriyas made the actual kills. The Brahman warned 
How Many?
How many Ravnos still walk the World of 
Darkness? In the nights following the Week of 
Nightmares, estimates range from fewer than 100 
to double or triple that. Time of Thin Blood states 
that “perhaps 100 survive, and no powerful elders.” 
Nights of Prophecy implies that there may be 
more, and shows that Durga Syn and her brood 
clearly survived (and if Durga Syn isn’t a powerful 
elder, who is?).
In truth, there isn’t a single gospel answer as 
to how many Ravnos survived the week, beyond 
“very few.” How many died? Most of them. This 
leaves a great deal of leeway in individual chronicles 
for Storytellers and players to determine just how 
many Ravnos are still around.
What About the Elders?
Elder survival is another matter. It all really 
depends on how one interprets “powerful elders.” 
Does it mean that all fourth and fifth generation 
Ravnos were destroyed? Does it mean that no 
Ravnos stronger than eighth generation survived 
the purge? Again, this question is for individual 
chronicles to determine. Clanbook: Ravnos hints 
that a few powerful elders are up and about in the 
wake of the Week of Nightmares, but those hints 
may be misleading.
Who Cares about  
the Week of Nightmares?
If the Week of Nightmares hasn’t happened yet 
in your chronicle, or the Storyteller doesn’t plan 
to use it, then simply ignore all references to it and 
its effects. The Ravnos are still at full strength and 
up to whatever they were doing. It’s that simple.


Clanbook: Ravnos
42
against this tactic, but even they could not deny its 
success on several notable occasions. 
Few surviving Kshatriyas remain in India, having 
chosen to seek their fortunes elsewhere. The Week 
of Nightmares convinced many that the war itself 
was futile. 
Vaisyas
Traditionally Embraced from the merchant class, 
the Vaisyas are the Ravnos who traditionally deal with 
mortal society. Most Vaisyas had many connections 
and much power in their neighborhoods and cities 
before the Embrace, and they maintain these ties 
through their families’ wealth and influence. Vaisyas 
oversee the cities so that the Kshatriyas are free to 
manage the war. 
Typically, the Vaisyas handle Ravnos interactions 
with mortal governments and businesspeople, cover 
up any problems that could lead to discovery of Kin-
dred existence (Eastern or Western) on a wide scale 
and track the movements of Eastern Kindred in the 
cities. Historically, one of this jati’s more frustrating 
duties was to “clean up” after the Kshatriyas’ holy 
wars, usually with fire or reports of plague or some 
other means of keeping too many mortals from ask-
ing questions. It’s impossible to prevent suspicion 
completely, but with the number of humans packed 
into a city like New Delhi, the Vaisyas rarely found 
it hard to keep the wrong people from asking the 
wrong questions — if nothing else, they could simply 
shrug and tell others that the night swallowed those 
who vanished.
Chandalas
Chandalas is the lowest-ranked jati. Its members 
are forbidden to Embrace, lest they spread their impure 
blood and ideals. Indian Ravnos consider any Caitiff 
to be Chandalas, and any Ravnos caught breaking the 
tenets of Paradox is likewise demoted to this caste. 
Members of other clans and bloodlines who come to 
India are seen as Chandalas, although the Ravnos 
may offer them more overt respect or consideration 
to avoid immediate conflict. 
Chandalas often receive opportunities to improve 
their standing through onerous and odious duties — 
for example, arranging to gather and cremate the 
bodies of mortals considered likely to rise again as 
Eastern Kindred.  Most Ravnos unlucky enough to 
be declared Chandalas have simply left India rather 
than suffer under such a stigma.


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
43
Sudras
The Sudras are not a true jati, and no Ravnos is 
considered to be Sudra. Ravnos ghouls are considered 
Sudras and therefore beneath the Embrace. If a mortal 
was truly worthy of the Ravnos Embrace, he would 
not be a ghoul and thus a servant. Ravnos rarely treat 
their ghouls well, nor do they usually keep them for 
very long. Some Ravnos have kept personal ghouls 
for decades or centuries, and these servants are quite 
formidable for their age. A few have been passed from 
regnant to regnant and suffer from the shifting loyalties 
of each new blood bond.
Sudras commonly serve as scapegoats. If a Ravnos 
draws too much attention from the mortals, one of her 
ghouls will probably suffer in her place. 
Among the Ravnos of India, ghouls are considered 
outside their dharma, much as Kindred are, and so do 
not receive the same consideration that mortals do, 
at least according to the Path of Paradox. The longer 
a Sudra has been a ghoul, the less connected he is to 
his human life, and the less valuable as an individual 
to even the most devout Ravnos.
The Western Shilmulo
In the West, the Ravnos have placed much less 
emphasis on lineage and pedigree, Embracing mortals 
for any number of reasons that may have little to do 
with blood relations or social standing. Such consider-
ations may have been more important several centuries 
ago, but in the modern nights, Western Ravnos aren’t 
tightly knit. Instead, they tend to find a niche and 
build it up. It’s not unheard of to find a Ravnos act-
ing as consigliere to a Mafia family, or working with 
the Medellín cartels. Lacking a tight social structure 
like that in India, Western Ravnos drift to whatever 
interests them most.
Consequently, most Western Ravnos form small 
coteries composed of neonates with no direct blood 
connection, or a sire Embracing a few childer to 
share the night with her, or simply individual Ravnos 
working with and among members of other clans. 
In the wake of the Week of Nightmares, most of 
the Ravnos-only coteries either fell apart or lost 
the bulk of their members during the frenzies that 
overtook the clan.
The surviving Ravnos have retreated into 
hiding, sought out other clan members, or taken 
the opportunity to approach mortal and Kindred 
society on their own terms without the influence 
of other Ravnos, especially elders. Those who form 


Clanbook: Ravnos
44
new coteries do so from the need to survive or the 
desire to learn what happened — or to keep it from 
happening to them.
The Rroma Shilmulo
Throughout Europe, North America and South 
America, Ravnos traveled with their Rroma families. 
They traveled in groups, largely for reasons of safety, 
especially among Kindred who distrusted them on 
sight (a reputation they brought upon themselves, 
and to an extent, their mortal cousins). Unlike the 
giorgio Ravnos, the Rroma Ravnos were much more 
tightly knit and closely associated with each other. 
This closeness largely stemmed from a siege mentality, 
as Ravnos who associated with Rroma rarely found 
welcome in European or American domains; when 
they did stay, more often than not the established 
Kindred strongly encouraged them to move on.
Ravnos who traveled with the mortal Rroma did 
not necessarily enjoy a pleasant relationship with 
their mortal relatives. Many a Rroma took it upon 
himself to rid the world of another bloodthirsty 
monster before it killed another member of his fam-
ily. Others took to traveling by day and leaving the 
Kindred somewhere unpleasant and alone. 
Current Situation
During the Week of Nightmares, the Rroma 
Ravnos suffered more than any other group. In the 
few nights during which the blood frenzy overtook 
the clan, nearly all the Rroma Ravnos destroyed each 
other in cannibalistic rage simply because of their close 
proximity. The few survivors disdain the company of 
other Ravnos in reaction to the madness. Before the 
Week of Nightmares, Rroma Ravnos formed the vis-
ible majority of the clan. Now they have dwindled to a 
shadow of their former numbers and are barely visible 
to anyone. Outside observers (wrongly) assume this 
means the Ravnos clan has been destroyed utterly (if 
they notice at all).
Ravnos Around 
the World
 The Ravnos Kindred have always traveled. Before 
the disaster, they lived on every continent — and 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
45
probably still do, if one looks carefully enough. Reports 
of Ravnos casualties from the Week of Nightmares 
vary from “all Ravnos met destruction” to “maybe a 
hundred or so survive” to suspicions that the bulk of 
the clan has gone into hiding. The truth is a bit more 
complex, and not easily divined. At least 100 survivors 
exist, some of whom may be elders, but if the old ones 
survived, they haven’t yet made themselves known 
except in rumors.
The following paragraphs provide some context 
for Ravnos activity before and after the Week of 
Nightmares, as best as can be reconstructed.
India
India is the Ravnos clan’s traditional homeland 
and has been the center of clan activity for the past 
several thousand years. Events in India are somewhat 
confused, considering Ravnos presence there and the 
purpose for that presence. The Karavalanisha Vrana, for 
example, claims that the Ravnos progenitor was cre-
ated in India. If the recorded dates are to be believed, 
gods who didn’t exist for at least four thousand years 
afterward created Zapathasura and the Ravnos. The 
skeptical might suspect a great deal of “after the fact” 
rationalizing tied up in the Karavalanisha Vrana and 
its associated texts.
Before the Week of Nightmares, the Ravnos clan 
in India arguably represented the largest Kindred power 
base in Asia. Ravnos princes claimed domains in Indian 
cities much as the Ventrue and Toreador claim that 
title in European cities. The largest difference between 
the Ravnos and other clans was the continuing war 
with the asuratizayya, the Indian Ravnos’ name for 
the Eastern Kindred. For centuries, a fluctuating state 
of war between the two groups existed throughout 
India and led to brutal battles. This warfare wasn’t 
universal — some Eastern Kindred had better things 
to do than kill Ravnos and vice versa — but elders 
on both sides drove the conflict. Ravnos in India had 
to be careful where they traveled; entering the wrong 
city could mean painful destruction at the hands of 
the asuratizayya.
In the wake of the Week of Nightmares, several 
Eastern Kindred took advantage of the sudden drop in 
Ravnos numbers and moved to claim their own domains 
in cities formerly held by their rivals. Cities once safe 
for Ravnos are now death traps for the incautious or 
unlucky, but thankfully for the Kindred, it’s not too 
hard to hide their existence in cities literally crammed 
with human beings. Some of the more ancient and 
powerful Ravnos may survive in torpor; no one knows 
what will happen when or if they awaken. 
Elder havens throughout India sit abandoned, as 
if their owners had just stepped outside to sup for the 
evening. Neonates survive throughout the country, 
trying to avoid ancient enemies intent on purging 
India of all Ravnos (and other Kindred) influences.
Ravnos of Note: Formerly, scores of elders and 
possibly hundreds of neonates. Now, no one knows. 
Most of the Ravnos in India suffered the Final Death 
during the Week of Nightmares, either in cannibalis-
tic frenzies or because such frenzies revealed them to 
their ancestral enemies. The weakness suffered by the 
Ravnos across those several nights gave opportunistic 
asuratizayya the chance to destroy their most hated 
foes with little fear of reprisal.
Africa
Ravnos have lived in Africa nearly as long as they 
have in India, although not as visibly. The Deceivers 
spread throughout Northern Africa with the Phoeni-
cians and traveled into the interior to other African 
kingdoms and empires. Few returned to tell the tale, 
but those who did had some interesting experiences 
to relate. In modern times, Ravnos can be found in 
any major city. Such places are easy to blend into, 
given the presence of international black markets, 
constant drug and weapon smuggling, and piracy. 
Ravnos of Note: One small lineage in eastern 
Africa claims descent from Anansi, a trickster spider 
god known for his thievery. This claim is obviously 
not verifiable and these Ravnos show the same ten-
dencies as their cousins from other parts of the world. 
Given the proliferation of Ravnos creation myths, the 
Anansi connection is probably just another cultural 
malapropism. The eldest surviving clan member 
seems to sincerely believe the claim, however, and 
calls himself Anansi. He and others of his line travel 
continuously across Africa and often try to undermine 
the power and presence of European Kindred — over 
a slight from the lips of a Camarilla prince uttered 
centuries ago.
Asia
Ravnos have lived in Asia for the clan’s entire 
history. The heart of the Ravnos has always lain in 
India, and Ravnos have often traveled to China, 
Mongolia and other nations, frequently disguising 
themselves as Eastern Kindred for passage. When 
the Rroma began their migrations out of India, some 
traveled into Asia proper as well as to Europe. Ravnos 
traveled with them and spread across Asia in greater 
numbers than before, which led to more conflicts 
with the Eastern Kindred. Despite those battles, a 


Clanbook: Ravnos
46
few Ravnos still survive in Asia. These rare Kindred 
must maintain a Masquerade from mortals and their 
own ancient enemies, and usually have a compelling 
personal reason to remain.
Outside India, the Week of Nightmares in-
flicted few losses on Asian Ravnos, as they group 
together less often than their brethren elsewhere. 
Even so, fewer Ravnos likely still stalk the night in 
Asia than on any other continent outside Europe 
simply because of the difficulty of surviving in the 
Cathayans’ midst.
Ravnos of Note: Unconfirmed rumors place a 
Ravnos elder known as the Flesh-Eater in the Green 
Courts of the Kuei-jin.
Australia
Despite being established as a penal colony, 
Australia is about as criminal in culture as the 
United States. Therefore, the Ravnos find it no 
more attractive than any other nation and less so 
than many. Nonetheless, the Australian continent’s 
large size and relative paucity of Kindred makes it 
a favored place to cool off if other regions get too 
warm. Smugglers transport their goods through many 
Australian ports, and some Ravnos take advantage of 
that fact. Many have networks throughout Southeast 
Asia and in Hong Kong, and use Australia as a base 
of operations away from the Eastern Kindred (who 
rarely take kindly to Western intrusion).
Ravnos of Note: A small jati, the Seven Phoe-
nix Triad, operates extensively through mortal 
proxies in Hong Kong, but is actually based in 
Darwin. The Ravnos rarely entered Hong Kong 
even before it changed hands from the Common-
wealth to China; nowadays, they visit the city 
only in extreme circumstances.
Europe
In the years following the “discovery” of the 
New World, many European Ravnos migrated to 
North America. The primary population they left 
behind was Rroma, who had migrated from India 
only shortly before. Many European Kindred of other 
clans believed that the “Gypsies” had destroyed those 
who weren’t of proper blood, and the new arrivals 
had no desire to disabuse them of this notion. This 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
47
circumstance, perhaps more than anything else, 
led to the enduring perception of the Ravnos as a 
Gypsy clan. 
Apart from the Indian Ravnos, the Week of 
Nightmares struck the European segment of the clan 
the hardest. The European Ravnos traveled inkump-
aniya, sometimes with as many as five or six shilmulo 
traveling with the mortal Rroma. This close associa-
tion led to the clan’s virtual annihilation in Europe, 
leaving giorgio and outcasts as the primary survivors.
Ravnos of Note: Despite the near-total de-
struction of powerful Ravnos elders, Durga Syn 
continues to survive, surrounded by neonates and 
ancillae she Embraced over the centuries. In fact, 
some who know whisper that the Week of Night-
mares left her and her blood untouched. A few 
who know enough to speculate have put forth the 
theory that whatever blocked supernatural access 
to Russia somehow blunted the curse that swept 
the Ravnos.  Durga Syn has not stepped forward 
to offer her opinion.
Middle East
Ravnos live throughout the Middle East, some of 
them descendents of a few jati with extreme religious 
views. Though many were chosen from the Muslim 
faith, Muslims are not the dominant group among 
the Ravnos in the area, as Muhammed’s followers 
frequently find the Path of Paradox hard to accept. 
The predominance of faith and violence in the re-
gion makes it difficult for most Kindred to survive 
here, and the Ravnos are no exception.
Ravnos of Note: An ancient known as Amaravati 
recently awakened from torpor and spearheaded the 
clan’s conversion to the traditional Path of Paradox. 
She was known to reside in Iraq before the Week of 
Nightmares, and is reputed among Ravnos who recog-
nized her name to have close ties with the Assamites. 
She vanished during the Week of Nightmares and is 
assumed to have met the Final Death.
North America
North America has possibly the largest surviving 
Ravnos population — or perhaps had. One reason 
modern Ravnos are less willing to claim their lineage 
is the fact that many Camarilla elders have an inkling 
of what happened to the clan and see the younger 
Ravnos as harbingers of Gehenna. These elders, in 
their respective cities, have attempted purges of any 
Ravnos who enter, and the Ravnos lack sufficient 
communications or numbers to mount any kind of 
Treatment (or so they think). 
At least a dozen Ravnos have gathered into two 
or three coteries for safety in numbers. They’re try-
ing to find other Ravnos — not necessarily to make 
contact, but to find out what the hell happened.
Many Ravnos live on the West Coast, where a few 
elders moved to face the incoming Eastern Kindred 
threat, and young Deceivers have taken cover among 
the crumbling anarch domains. Several other young 
Ravnos survived the clan’s collapse, but the eldest 
have not been seen since then. Without the so-called 
spiritual guidance of their elders, the survivors have 
taken to unlife in California with a vengeance, play-
ing up to the clan’s degenerate reputation and giving 
in to their darker temptations.
Ravnos of Note: See the coterie described in 
Chapter Three.
South America
Opportunistic Ravnos find South America 
fertile ground for their needs. Many are attracted 
to Rio de Janeiro and its allegedly decadent atmo-
sphere. The reality is not always what they expect, 
but many Ravnos adapt. Others are drawn to 
Colombia and other parts of the continent where 
they can indulge their base urges without much 
fear of reprisal from mortal or Kindred authorities. 
Unfortunately, many find that other Kindred who 
got there first have definite and unpleasant ideas 
about visitors.
As a general rule, the Ravnos avoid the wilder-
ness of South America. The Amazon Jungle is too 
dangerous to travel, given the presence of Lupines 
and stranger beasts. This wild region does not easily 
forgive trespassers.
Ravnos of Note: Rafael Schliemann is well 
known among the criminals in Rio de Janeiro. 
Whatever anyone needs, Rafael can provide it. 
Mortals are his specialty merchandise. He handles a 
thriving slave trade that serves as the center of a web 
stretching across the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans 
into Africa, Asia and parts of America. He report-
edly uses the Rio slums as his base of operations. He 
also provides herds to order for his more selective 
clientele, and rumor has it that several Ventrue go 
to him regularly. Rafael makes his haven in a heav-
ily guarded mansion that originally belonged to a 
Portuguese plantation owner.


Clanbook: Ravnos
48
Born Criminals: 
The Ravnos 
Weakness
In the words of Leszek Kisliewsky
This is the simple truth: Every Ravnos is a crimi-
nal. Let me restate that: Every Ravnos is a criminal. 
The Embrace awakens the Beast within every Kin-
dred, but the Ravnos Beast is a bit more cunning, a 
bit more deceptive and a bit more underhanded than 
that of other Kindred. This is not an advantage. We 
are subject to the same psychotic episodes that every 
other Kindred suffers, but we also have to deal with 
a little voice in the back of our heads that whispers, 
“Go ahead. Take it — no one will notice. If they do, 
they won’t think you did it.” It’s persuasive, it knows 
every dark corner in your soul and eventually you’ll 
give in.
Other Kindred think that Ravnos are thieves. 
If it were that simple, existence wouldn’t be such a 
pain. Truthfully, our weakness gives many princes 
and other Kindred valid reasons to distrust or even 
hate our clan (though they come to us whenever 
they need something underhanded done). Ravnos 
suffer from compulsions that range from the pedes-
trian habit of kleptomania to the far more exotic 
and dangerous drive to commit diablerie on fellow 
Kindred. Fortunately, relatively few Ravnos are 
driven to the latter.
What I said in the first paragraph sounds a bit 
metaphorical, so I’ll expand. That little voice is not 
external, it’s not like a demon gibbering in the dark 
places of your conscious mind that you can ignore or 
argue with. It is part of your own deepest self. Often, 
you’ll find yourself acting on that impulse before you 
realize what you’re about to do. It’s quieter than frenzy 
and less likely to be noticed, but it’s no less compel-
ling when it happens. Path of Paradox followers say 
this destructive inner drive is one of the temptations 
laid in our path that we must control or direct toward 
our own needs, but I think they’re just rationalizing 
their own behavior.
The fact is, we Ravnos don’t have to give in 
to every sudden impulse. With effort, most of us 
can fight down the urge and move on, at least for a 
while. The Ravnos who ignores it for too long feels 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
49
a gnawing ache, like the thirst for blood. She might 
even seek out opportunities to commit crimes, or 
else find herself subject to temptation more and more 
often until she gives in. How often a Ravnos gives in 
depends on each individual’s degree of self-control 
and strength of will.
In the end, it’s not really that we’re inclined 
toward crime. We’re simply doomed to prove 
to ourselves that we are the masters of our own 
svadharma.
The Curse
According to old stories, the curse of tempa-
tion under which the Ravnos labor was inflicted as 
a punishment because the clan founder desired the 
pleasures of the life lost to him. His need to steal life 
from mortals, as well as his desire to regain what he 
no longer had, expanded to encompass all aspects 
of mortal life. Rather than simply seek out what 
he wanted on his terms, he was compelled to take 
whatever he could get as a reminder that no matter 
how much he had or how he got it, he would never 
benefit from it. I note that the curse did not simply 
include theft, but many crimes. Some stories say “all 
possible crimes.”
One version of the story goes on to state that the 
Antediluvian could weaken the curse placed upon 
him by spreading it to others — his childer, their 
childer, and so on. The more Ravnos in the world, 
the weaker the founder’s own curse would become. 
The Shape of Vice
For every Ravnos, the crime is different — some 
bear strong similarities to each other, but the driving 
motivation and intent usually differs in some key 
way. Ravnos develop criminal inclinations based 
on their activities in life, either a temptation they 
indulged often as mortals or something they espe-
cially despised, as the Embrace is an ironic gift. This 
means that the meticulous serial killer will probably 
have an even stronger urge to kill, and his murders 
will probably become more intricate. Or the police 
officer who loathes the drug dealers she routinely 
arrests will develop an urge to obtain those same 
drugs, or partake of them through her vessels (the 
two urges are not incompatible). 
Some Ravnos develop impulses toward crimes 
they never would have considered in mortal life. The 
Kindred form and its powers provide opportunities 
to commit acts that no mortal would attempt, and 
the Embrace occasionally brings such urges forth. 
A newly Embraced Ravnos may be unaware of any 
reason she might be tempted to commit such of-
fenses, but even these derive in some way from the 
childe’s personality.
Rroma Ravnos and the Weakness
Some Ravnos who were Rroma as mortals claim 
that they are less bound by the weakness, that the 
thin nature of “giorgio” vitae has made us too weak 
to resist stronger impulses toward specific crimes. 
They go on to say that they are instead driven to 
break society’s mores and laws, in any way they 
Choose Your Crime
The Ravnos stereotype is the thief — Ravnos 
characters are expected to steal things as part of 
their weakness — but this trait isn’t very evocative 
unless handled in an interesting or different way.
First, when creating a Ravnos, consider his his-
tory and personality and use that to establish context 
for the character’s crime. Don’t worry about making 
it perfectly balanced with the compulsions of other 
Ravnos,  because the weakness is different for every 
one. One Ravnos might have the urge to tempt 
archons and lead them away from their justicars and 
the Camarilla; another might be more interested in 
sparking or exacerbating vendettas among Kindred 
or mortal power structures. The former is specific 
and the latter quite general. The two are not by any 
means equal, nor do they need to be.
Storytelling the Weakness
The Ravnos weakness is mainly a roleplaying 
matter. When a Ravnos has the opportunity to com-
mit her crime, the player must make a Self-Control 
roll (difficulty 6) to avoid it. The effects, however, 
largely come down to her character. A Ravnos who 
needs to reject and oppose authority figures has to 
actually reject and oppose such figures in roleplay. 
The player must be willing to play through the 
chosen crime when it comes up, or play through 
resisting it — an act of will in itself.
The image of the happy-go-lucky Ravnos who 
merrily skips from victim to victim and relieves them 
of property and prosperity is a vapid stereotype, and 
should not define the clan. Consider, when creat-
ing a Ravnos character, what it would be like to be 
driven to commit verboten acts above and beyond 
those needed for survival. Some Ravnos may choose 
to hide their disgust at their own actions with a 
supercilious demeanor, but few truly are so carefree. 
Those who are so exuberant tend to lose control 
of their urges most often and many are destroyed 
before they get old enough to be much of a hazard 
in Kindred society.


Clanbook: Ravnos
50
choose. I think they’re deceiving themselves. Some 
Rroma may suffer under such a compulsion, and I 
do mean suffer. If you think getting the urge to hold 
up a convenience store every time you see the cash 
drawer open is bad, imagine the need to act against 
whatever society you’re in.
The rumor is that Ravnos hang out with Rroma 
and we’re all one big happy family. I don’t know 
about you, but I’ve looked into Rroma culture, and 
they have a lot of taboos I don’t pretend to under-
stand. Now, if you were part of a culture with a lot 
of rules about what you do and how you behave, 
would you want some bloodsucking bastard hang-
ing around who breaks those rules every chance he 
gets? I wouldn’t.
Kris and other 
Gatherings
As told by Neel Ramanathan
For a clan whose blood drives its members to break 
laws and customs, Ravnos are often given to strong 
traditions within the clan.
Sects and Society
Sects are crap — both of them. They’re a con 
and a lie. Go to any city and try to guess whether it’s 
Camarilla or Sabbat by looking. The answer is, you 
can’t. They spend so much time hating each other 
they’ve become mirror images. What can I say? Unin-
tentional irony is the best kind. Or perhaps the worst.
The Camarilla
Sect is a matter of choice, at least if you’re dealing 
with the Camarilla. In truth, most princes and elders 
don’t care if you’re a member of their little club as 
long as they don’t catch you breaking their little rules. 
In fact, it’s remarkably easy to get by in a Camarilla 
domain by claiming membership. Hypothetically, 
any Kindred can do it and few princes care one way 
or another unless your presence brings problems or 
solutions to the domain. It’s best to offer solutions.
I would say that, at best, only a minority of the 
Camarilla’s membership has ever seen a Ravnos, 
and fewer still have ever met one knowingly. That’s 
a fairly low number, but consider who does appear 
at their Elysiums and garden parties and salons and 
whatever-the-hell else they call their little soirées. 
You’re lucky to see the prince once a year, let alone 
continuously run afoul of her. Any primogen will 
show his face only if he thinks his presence will let 
him play a situation to his benefit. Even before they 
jumped ship, the Gangrel rarely showed their snouts 
at Kindred gatherings, and while you can expect 
the Nosferatu to attend, you probably won’t see 
any. The Ventrue appear to see, the Toreador to be 
seen, the Brujah so they can rail against authority, 
the Malkavians just smile and nod and the Tremere 
make carefully annotated reports on it all. Aside from 
that, they’re all ancillae and their childer trying to 
curry favor with elders who’d rather spend their time 
chortling over maps of the city and congratulating 
themselves on their newest scheme to seize control 
of City Hall or some other bullshit.
The Sabbat
Back in the ancient mists of history, around the 
16th or 17th century, a group of disgruntled Kindred 
got together and decided they were destined to rule 
the world. The two major contingents in this little 
party were the Lasombra and the Tzimisce — go 
figure. We’re probably lucky they both decided to 
team up in this little plan. Just one of them might 
have made actual progress by now. As it is, these 
two clans of manifestly destined Ventrue knockoffs 
are too busy interfering with each other to make a 
difference. They take a city, they lose a city. Check 
out the deal in Manhattan last year.
Don’t get me wrong — I’d love to be in a world 
where Kindred don’t have to hide in the shadows 
like rats. I’m under the impression that the Sabbat’s 
normal modus operandi is exactly the sort of thing 
that triggered the Inquisition and the Camarilla’s 
formation back in the 15th century. It strikes me as 
a little wrong-headed to try to correct the problems 
of the past by repeating the mistakes of the past.
The Antitribu
Okay, okay, you ask, “If the Sabbat sucks so hard, 
why did so many Ravnos join?” The answer lies in 
the Sabbat’s party line: freedom. Freedom from the 
elders, from the Antediluvians, from the end of the 
world, credit-card debt and just about everything else 
you can toss into the mix. For a clan whose members 
widely value freedom, the Sabbat looked like the best 
option around. I don’t know how many joined when 
the Sabbat formed, or how many participated in the 
Anarch Revolts that preceded the Camarilla — I’ve 
heard educated guesses that range from one-third to 
one-half of the clan in Europe. I don’t think it really 
matters. The end result is that the Ravnos antitribu 
were one of the larger clans (outside the Big Two) 
in the Sabbat. 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
51
The worst thing about Ravnos Antitribu is that 
they’re like the born-agains — they’ve found something 
Important and they Must Share It With Us. I’m talk-
ing about seriously evangelical behavior here. Within 
the Sabbat, the Ravnos are relatively relaxed, at least 
compared to the other anti-clans like the Assamites or 
the Ventrue. When they come across one of us, that’s 
when they start witnessing. Just smile, nod and take 
a brochure. Then leave town.
It’s worse since the Week of Nightmares. At a 
guess, one-third to one-half of the Ravnos antitribu 
were in Ravnos-only packs, with the rest sprinkled 
among the rest of the Sabbat. Sabbat loyalty is an 
incredible thing — Kindred in a Sabbat pack can 
get away with near-murder among each other — 
and when the Ravnos went crazy, most of them 
were thoughtfully subdued with whatever weapons 
came to hand and left to sleep off the urge. In some 
cases, if rumor is true, the blood-crazed Ravnos 
ended up leading their packs on a wild chase after 
a few elder Ravnos and sucking down their souls. 
I’m not sure all of the Sabbat even noticed the 
change in behavior.
The end result is that most of the Ravnos still on 
the streets are probably Sabbat. Relatively few actually 
died during the Nightmares, but few is a subjective 
word. Not many elders were part of the Sabbat, and 
I’m hoping any elders who were Sabbat died. 
Anarchs
The anarchs can be a Ravnos’ most valuable 
acquaintances. Most of them are too young to give 
two flings with a dead whore about clan or history. 
If you’ve spent any time around the Camarilla, your 
first image upon seeing the word “anarch” is probably 
a pack of Hell’s Angels rejects who have nothing bet-
ter to do with their time than toss Molotov cocktails 
into the Toreador’s favorite Elysiums. Thankfully, 
they’re usually smarter than that, or at least not that 
interested in revolution.
A significant number of North American anarchs 
spend their time wandering the freeways, byways, 
highways, back roads and dirt roads of the United 
States, and more than a few Ravnos accompany them. 
It’s always better to travel in a group, after all, and the 
anarchs are less likely to place bizarre conditions upon 
their favors. Anarchs can also be used as camouflage 
for any less “wholesome” behavior that we might find 
ourselves engaging in. I mean, it’s easy for a prince 
to blame his problems on the anarchs, but it’s not 
always so easy to attach a face. If you cause trouble 
likely to bring the prince’s wrath down on somebody, 
leave town and let the anarchs soak it up. They have 
sufficient practice at dealing with princely outrage.
Some anarchs have political goals — the over-
throw of the elders’ power, equality for neonates and 
other such nonsense. Don’t get too involved in this 
crowd; it can only lead to bloody tears. I see no point 
to joining a fight you don’t believe in, let alone suf-
fering destruction for someone else’s beliefs. If you’re 
caught in the midst of a pack of rhetoric-spouting 
Caitiff anarchs who want to ban the fucking bomb, 
smile and nod often. When they’re not paying atten-
tion to you, slip away quietly. You do not want to get 
into the kind of trouble they stir up. Oh, and never 
throw in with the “Unbound,” or you’ll wake one 
night with the sheriff’s fangs at your throat.
The Treatment
Word is that princes who kick Ravnos out of 
town have “The Treatment” coming to them. Some 
unwise neonates have been known to use this threat 
to induce princes to allow them to stay. This is about 
as stupid as you can get.
The Treatment rarely happens. When it does, it’s 
most often because some elder with more connections 
than sense decided to wreak unholy vengeance on 
a prince for some slight or other — usually denying 
the rights due to all Kindred in the city in question. 
Now, this is not to say that a prince who kicks us out 
of a city doesn’t deserve a response, but that response 
need not be obvious, announced or threatened. Don’t 
mention it. If a prince says “Leave town,” then leave 
town, friend. Odds are good that his sheriffs and 
scourges and primogens and personal bodyguards and 
whatever else he has handy outnumber you. Hanging 
around is stupid and you’ll be brightening sunsets 
before too long with that kind of attitude problem.
With that little lecture out of the way, the 
Treatment is real. It happens. The point is that if 
the princes expect it, they’ll quietly kill us when we 
come into town rather than escort us out. In fact, 
this is one of the scourges’ assigned duties — quietly 
killing inconvenient Kindred. 
The Methods
One of the reasons Ravnos stick together is the 
potential for mutual support. You didn’t think it was 
the warm, cozy feeling of family on the holidays, did 
you? No, we have a vested interest in keeping our 
freedom to go where we want. Of course, walking 
into a city and getting your sorry ass whacked is not 
the best way to achieve this. So, to make it work, we 
have to cooperate.


Clanbook: Ravnos
52
The first step is to keep in touch with other 
Ravnos. Maintain e-mail addresses, cell phones, post 
office boxes, answering services, anything that will 
get the word through. Then send word when you go 
somewhere. Leave information about where you’re 
going, when you’ll arrive and how long you expect 
to be there. Be sure to give an idea how often you’ll 
leave reports of your well being. Pick up messages 
from others and pass them around so that your fellow 
Ravnos have a general sense of where we all are at 
any given time.
If you run into or expect trouble, leave a note 
to that effect. If you lose touch with your contacts, 
other Ravnos may decide to check it out. This choice 
depends on how they feel about the prince or other 
Kindred in the city where you vanished, how they 
feel about you and whether they care to risk their 
existence trying to avenge what may be an idiot’s 
well-deserved demise, or just another pain in the ass. 
If you do get run out of town, it’s a good idea 
to post a heads-up to the rest of the blood, so they 
know why or how. If a prince hates Ravnos, avoid 
his domain. If you’re kicked out of a prince’s domain 
for poor behavior, leave. Don’t get pissy, don’t bitch 
at the prince, don’t make threats and do not, under 
any circumstances, mention the Treatment. It’s what 
“everybody knows” about us, but we shouldn’t men-
tion it to them. Other Kindred get weird when you 
talk casually about turning their cities upside down. 
That, and it works better to let them fear it without 
stooping to churlish threats, especially since you 
probably don’t know enough other Ravnos to call a 
Treatment worth the capital T.
Of course, you are expected to return the favor. 
Just a warning: Not all Ravnos care about the 
Treatment, especially since the Week of Nightmares 
hit. In fact, since that time, most Ravnos prefer to lie 
low and avoid notice even from the rest of the clan. 
I can’t blame them. It’s hard to get anyone together 
for a Treatment if you can only find one or two of 
the blood who will talk to you at all.
This Means War!
Assuming you’ve got a mob together to inflict the 
infamous Treatment on a city, it’s time to assemble a 
plan. That’s right, you actually have to prepare. Even 
the Sabbat has a strategy behind their riots. Sure, 
it looks like a random mess when two dozen blood-
crazed mooks charge Elysium brandishing crowbars 
and zip guns, but that’s its charm — it only looks 
like utter chaos.
Don’t go for ineffectual pranks that only make 
your target look foolish. This is vengeance, not the 
script for an Adam Sandler movie. Fire for effect at 
all times. Use every resource you have available and 
do not — ever — let them catch you. Don’t break 
the Masquerade, your ego isn’t worth it. 
Part One: Plan
I can’t stress this enough. If you walk in with 
nothing more in mind than causing trouble, the 
powers that be will destroy you faster than you can 
say, “just kidding.” These Kindred have a lot of ego 
and effort invested in their titles and power. Even 
the vampire prince of the smallest town that can 
harbor Kindred got there because he was mean and 
ruthless enough to grab hold with his talons and 
sink his fangs into it. Any rival claimants are either 
dead or seriously defanged in his domain, assuming 
they exist. Don’t even ask what happened to the 
previous prince — you don’t need the nightmares.
Get a city map — you can buy them at gas 
stations, so no need to get baroque about it. Read 
the newspaper — you can buy newspapers for most 
major cities anywhere. I can walk into a newsstand 
in Seattle and pick up a copy of the New York Times, 
after all. Look for trouble spots — youth violence, 
gangs, drugs, police or political turbulence. These 
are both the weak spots and likely the areas on 
which the native Kindred have already focused 
their attention. 
Part Two: Leave Town
Once the Treatment is in motion, leave town 
and don’t come back. You’ve made your point; 
there’s no reason to hang around to see the results 
if the local scourge destroys you for your disrup-
tive behavior.
Also, it’s great if the prince and his lackeys aren’t 
sure whether or not the Treatment just hit or if it was 
a run of bad luck. The confusion enhances the mys-
tique — trust me on this.
The Others
You didn’t think I was going to let you off the 
hook without saying my piece about our fellow Kin-
dred, did you?
Assamites
Half of the Assassins are dangerous psychopaths 
who would just as soon devour your soul as look at 
you. The other half smile while doing it. I admit, 
that’s a harsh judgment, but these guys got hit with a 
nasty curse five centuries ago because they couldn’t 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
53
behave in civilized company. Now they act like po-
lite and cultured, but turn your back on them and 
they’ll have a stake in you faster than you can say 
“Allahu Akbar!”
All right, so some have overtly rejected their 
bloodthirstier cousins’ nastier habits. But be careful 
around this pack. For all we know, they could be the 
front line for another wave of diablerists. If an As-
samite is interested in you, be polite and give him 
every reason to find someone else to bother should 
he decide to obey his thirst.
Brujah
I think the Brujah largely support the Camarilla 
because it gives them something to bitch about. At 
length. They’re as much a part of the establishment 
as the Ventrue they’re always calling out, unending 
streams of vitriolic rhetoric aside. Some Brujah go 
on about the fabled glories of their pet cause and the 
absolute necessity to strike down the Ventrue with 
all the fury they can muster. This is why they’re one 
of the six pillars of the Camarilla, right?
Followers of Set
This clan must have stepped out of a bad fantasy 
pulp. “Okay, we’re all dead and we worship an evil 
snake god! ‘Cause he has snakes!” Then they run 
around promoting pedestrian acts of infamy that are 
supposed to prove their commitment to their naughty 
lord. The best thing about Setites is this: The first 
time is always free. No, I’m not kidding. They figure 
if they hook you, they can keep you forever. The 
trick is to hook them. If one of the serpents is dumb 
enough to give me stuff to do evil things, then I’ll 
take it. Of course, when the shit hits the fan and 
everything falls apart, he’s the one who should take 
all the credit, right?
Gangrel
Ever since my sire and my sire’s sire and my 
sire’s sire’s sire can remember, the Gangrel have 
been at odds with our clan. I don’t know what their 
malfunction is, but I’ve heard quite a few theories. 
One says the Gangrel were created to fight an enemy 
alongside the Ravnos, but that the Gangrel turned 
tail and ran rather than assume their rightful place. 
Personally, I think it’s more likely we ran into trouble 
over kine herds. For several centuries, Ravnos were 
coming into Europe with Gypsy families. Gangrel 
poached the herds and Ravnos responded appropri-
ately. Eventually, it got so you couldn’t introduce 
yourself before the Gangrel had his claws in the 
Ravnos’ gut and the Ravnos had imaginary priests 
shoving illusory torches into the Gangrel’s face. 
In the modern nights, half the fights you see start 
because one side knows the other side is an enemy, 
but neither party quite knows why. 
I hesitate to say that we can’t get along with 
Gangrel. Among the anarchs, it wasn’t unusual to 
see Ravnos and Gangrel side-by-side without either 
deciding the other one just had to go. I’m not saying 
I saw any bosom buddies in the mix, but I rarely saw 
any of those vague irreconcilable differences that the 
elders always went on about. Rule of thumb, though: 
when you’re around Gangrel, watch your back. You 
never know when one might decide your existence 
is a blight on his world and start waving his six-inch 
press-ons in your face.
Giovanni 
I have an odd relationship with the Giovanni I’ve 
met. They are a family; we act like a family. They’re 
into money and dead things; we’re into money. The 
Necromancers are among the creepiest Kindred I’ve 
had the displeasure to meet. All that aside, they make 
great business partners. Just keep all interactions on 
a professional level and don’t let them count the 
money until you’re long gone.
Sometimes a Giovanni will come looking for 
someone to do special jobs for them. They especially 
like Ravnos because we’re not well known to other 
Kindred and we can cover our tracks. If approached, 
act according to your conscience and don’t give 
them your name. They have eerie powers over the 
dead, and they can use your name as a link. Your real 
name, that is.
Lasombra
The Lasombra epitomize the Sabbat’s core tenet: 
The strong prevail, the weak perish. Rumor has it they 
destroyed their eldest just before the Camarilla formed. 
I can’t confirm that, but the few I’ve met were hardcore 
enough to try anything if they thought it would get 
them ahead. When you’re around a Lasombra, give 
her the respect she thinks she deserves. If you’re tired 
of existence, just start taunting her. Unlike our clan’s 
power over perception, the Lasombra’s power over 
shadows can get downright physical.
Malkavian
The Malkavians bother me, and not just because 
they know too damned much. Half the time they 


Clanbook: Ravnos
54
do something utterly clever, we get blamed for it. I 
think most of our reputation for uncivilized behavior 
comes from a Malkavian’s lunacy. They’re not stupid 
or clownish, but that’s no consolation. They have a 
weird ability to see through any deception or trickery. 
Personally, I’d rather kill one than deal with him. 
Kindred who like to think in shortcuts will compare 
Ravnos (because we’re “tricksters,” right?) and Malka-
vians (because they’re “tricksters,” right?) and lump us 
into the same category. This is plainly stupid. I don’t 
recall when Ravnos became blood-drooling maniacs 
by default. If you come across that kind of lazy think-
ing, milk it for what it’s worth. Either the Kindred 
will assume you’re a blood-drooling maniac or think 
you’re much more frightening than you have any right 
to be. Either misconception will be to your advantage 
if you’re on the ball.
Nosferatu
For such a group of ugly sonsabitches, these guys 
make my vitae itch just thinking about them. They 
know far too much for my own good. Sure, it’s easy 
to deal with them — hey, we’re outcasts, they’re 
outcasts, we talk to the animals and they talk to the 
animals. We have a lot in common, right? Sure, but 
don’t count on their goodwill and caring nature to 
extend to you if they can turn the dirt they have into 
benefit for them. You haven’t unlived until a sewer 
rat’s blackmailed you.
Here’s a trick in dealing with them: The Nosferatu 
know many things about the goings-on in their cities. 
Better yet, they get together and discuss it. If you feel 
up to it, you can use your power over animals to get a 
little of that action for yourself. It’s simple — just find 
a real rat and send him in to spy on the Nosferatu. 
Okay, it’s not that simple. They’ll turn that damned 
rodent against you half the time. So send a few dozen 
— the Sewer Rats can’t get them all. If you have the 
skill, possess one of the rats. Spend enough time in 
the sewers and you’re bound to learn something. The 
Nosferatu know their game, but they don’t always 
pay much attention to the animals in their warrens. 
They’re used to them, so a few extras don’t always 
set off their paranoia circuits. Hell, don’t even use 
rats. Use roaches.
Toreador
If I ever thought there was an underlying cosmic 
significance to my existence as one of the blood-
sucking undead, the Toreador are the best evidence 
against that foolish belief. I’m not saying that I think 
all these dry-humpers need to burn in the sun, but 
I wouldn’t shed any tears if they did. I’ve rarely en-
countered creatures so convinced of their importance 
to the universe and yet so utterly lacking in evidence 
to support their delusions. I mean, these losers use 
supernatural powers of charisma to win friends and 
influence people.
Naturally, if you want to get anywhere with a 
Toreador, you have to treat him as if he’s as important 
as he believes he is. Anything less and he’ll throw a 
temper tantrum and beg a primogen or the prince to 
swat your knuckles.
Tremere
 Here we have a pack of paranoid blood witches. 
What do they want to do? The same thing they do 
every night. They want to rule the world. Okay, I 
don’t know that for sure, but look at these two-bit 
special effects rejects. Sure, they can toss fireballs, 
fly around like a superhero and summon the very 
elements to strike down their enemies. What’s the 
flaw? Subtlety, or rather, the lack of it. I’m continu-
ally surprised that the Brujah have such a reputation 
for brute force when the Tremere have refined it to 
an art form. The most important rules when dealing 
with Tremere: Don’t meet their gaze and don’t give 
them your blood. Anything beyond that is up to you. 
I’ve heard rumors that at least one branch of the 
Ravnos enjoyed positive relations with the Tremere 
before the Camarilla formed. I haven’t seen any evi-
dence of that in my own dealings. Either they have 
a short memory or my sire was sucking down punks 
tweaking on crank. I wouldn’t rely on the possibility, 
either way. 
Tzimisce
These guys redefine the words “sick fuck.” The 
Fiends are the walking embodiment of the Sabbat’s 
core aesthetic: They have no human connections. To 
be more precise, they work really hard at convincing 
themselves that whatever was human before the Em-
brace withered away afterward. The psycho protests 
too much, methinks.
I have never met a Tzimisce I didn’t want to 
shove a stake into and put on a rooftop. Not one. I 
hate these shapeshifting bastards like nothing else. 
They’re vile, polluted things. I’m not even sure 
they’re really Kindred. Stay away from them if you 
value your existence. If you’re lucky, any Tzimisce 
you meet will turn you into a carnival sideshow act. If 
you’re unlucky, you’ll spend forever as a quadriplegic 
blood dildo.


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
55
Ventrue
If you put the Toreador at one extreme of behavior 
and the Lasombra at the other end, the Ventrue fall 
somewhere in the middle. Your typical Ventrue prob-
ably believes that she’s owed the world, but she’ll do 
everything in her power to take it. Overall, they do 
the leadership thing better than the Lasombra and 
they just aren’t as pathetic as the Toreador. They’re 
dangerous as hell. One call from a Ventrue’s cell 
phone and you’ll find your bank accounts frozen, 
a warrant out for your arrest and your haven paved 
over to make a goddamned parking lot. Don’t make 
them angry — or if you have to make one angry, 
do it in such a way that she’s not angry with you. I 
don’t care how much of a hardcore rebel muthafucka 
you think you are, when you’re in the presence of a 
Ventrue prince, treat her with the respect she claims 
to deserve. You’ll find it pays off in the long run.
The Rroma
This topic is a delicate one. Many Kindred be-
lieve that all Ravnos are Rroma — what most people 
call Gypsies. This is partly true. Until recently, most 
visible Ravnos were Rroma. Roughly 600 years ago, 
the Rroma spread throughout Europe and picked up 
a really bad reputation. I suspect it largely sprang 
from the fact that a few hundred Ravnos traveled 
into Europe with them. 
The Ravnos believed that to maintain blood 
purity, they should only Embrace from within their 
families. So the Ravnos who arrived with the Rroma 
(presumably their relatives) Embraced from among 
the Rroma. All these Ravnos had a little voice in 
the back of their minds telling them about all the 
wicked things they could do to make their unlives 
easier. This made the mortal Rroma’s lives harder, as 
every time they traveled to a new place, the Ravnos 
traveling with them would descend on the town and 
wreak havoc upon the wealthy and the powerful. 
Invariably, the Rroma were accused of the crimes or 
forced to move on.
I’m not saying the Rroma were blameless. Every 
society has criminals. But when the Rroma looked for 
help in getting rid of the Ravnos who had bled them 
white and led trouble to their families, the Gangrel 
were ready to step in and offer that help.
Personally, I think the Rroma who made that 
bargain traded one devil for another. In the process, 
the Ravnos and Gangrel clans came to blows on 
multiple occasions. Kindred in both clans met the 
Final Death for no better reason than the Rroma’s 
passage through Europe.
Some basic rules when around Rroma — remember 
they’re mortals. If you tell them you’re a bloodsuck-
ing undead monster, they’ll probably freak or try to 
kill you. So don’t. If you think it would be cool to 
dress and act like the Gypsies you see in the movies, 
don’t. You’ll stand out like a bleeding thumb. If you 
think it would be cool to relate to a Rroma person 
because you think she’s got the “wanderlust,” don’t. 
Rroma traveled because they had no place to stay. 
You’ll find a lot of Rroma living sedentary lives and 
holding respectable jobs. They’re not mortal Ravnos 
and don’t treat them as if they are. It’ll probably get 
you killed, if you’re lucky. 
One last thing: Traditional Rroma are sticklers for 
cleanliness. I’m talking seriously so. They won’t eat off 
your table if you put your feet on it. If they know you 
drink blood, they won’t hang around you — blood, 
as a bodily fluid, is impure. Like most mortals, the 
Rroma believe fairly strongly that the dead shouldn’t 
get up and walk around. In fact, I think they might 
be a little more vehement than most about it. Just 
don’t bring up the topic.
Faeries
I’ve never seen a faerie and I’m not sure I believe 
they exist. Sure, I heard about them from my sire, 
but what does that mean? Anyway, the word is that 
our illusions might be able to hurt them somehow. I 
don’t understand why, and I haven’t felt compelled 
to go looking for anyone to ask. Besides, I’m not sure 
where to find a faerie, let alone why I’d want to fuck 
with one.
The Lupine Survival 
Guide, Y2K Edition
Author unknown, distributed in hardcopy and, 
recently, digitally
Every Ravnos ends up in the following situation 
sooner or later. You’re hanging out in town and you’ve 
come to the attention of The Powers That Be. The 
prince, the primogen, the archbishop — it doesn’t 
matter what the power calls itself, it’s noticed you. 
That means you need to move on before whoever it 
is does something permanent to you.
The best solution is to leave town. Take a bus, 
plane or train and get the hell out of Dodge. Unfor-
tunately, if they want to catch you, they’ll watch the 
airport as well as the bus and train stations. Sure, 


Clanbook: Ravnos
56
you might slip by, but how certain are you of your 
ability to do so? Late night in any of these places is 
generally not very crowded and it’s hard as hell to 
get a flight out of town on short notice that will land 
before the sun rises.
The problem with traveling between cities, even 
in our modern world, is the Lupines. These furry 
bastards live to tear us apart. The odds are good that 
if you hop onto the Interstate 5 corridor and make a 
run from Seattle to the Anarch Free States, you’ll be 
able to find good places to stop during the day. You 
probably also won’t run into Lupine trouble — they 
can’t be everywhere at once. Unfortunately, you 
can’t get lucky every time. At some point, Lupines 
will probably appear from the woods, drop a tree on 
whatever you’re using for transportation and proceed 
to treat you like a piñata.
If you’re going to travel and risk a meeting with 
Lupines, I suggest packing the following items: Mace 
and/or pepper spray. Lupines have sensitive noses; if 
you can screw those up, you’re halfway there. Get a 
crowbar, or better yet, see about getting something 
electroplated with silver. Silver burns Lupines like 
nothing else. Don’t use this weapon to kill them, only 
to fight them off. Your goal should be to get away. 
Pack a few roadside flares as well. They’re not too 
dangerous for you to use and if you can shove one 
into a Lupine’s eyes and/or throat, that should even 
the odds a little. Don’t forget your fire extinguisher. 
By law, every car should have one. For us, it’s rather 
more important than for most. You can use it to blind 
attacking Lupines (lacking anything better), and 
put yourself out if you have an accident. Remember: 
Safety first.
Travel in a group. If you’re with other Ravnos, 
this precaution is ideal. If not, find a handy pack of 
anarchs. If you can get in on their good side, you’ll 
probably run into much less trouble. A pack of Lu-
pines who have no qualms about attacking a single 
Kindred on the road might — might — think twice 
about attacking a half-dozen Kindred on motorcycles 
and loaded for bear. 
Keep your trips short. Don’t try to push all the 
way from Portland to San Francisco in a two- or 
three-night haul. Don’t use the back roads, the Lu-
pines watch them more closely. Don’t stop in small 
towns — you won’t necessarily find Lupines there, 
but it’s best to avoid the trouble.
Before you travel, scout your route. You might not 
have time to do this, but if you do, at least do it right. 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
57
Call on the birds of the air and the beasts of the field 
and ask them. They won’t know what a “Lupine” is, 
but they’ll probably know about “man-beasts.” Ani-
mals aren’t bright enough to be completely reliable, 
but you should use every resource you have available.
One last caution: Don’t drive faster than the traf-
fic around you. The last thing you need is to catch 
the Highway Patrol’s attention.
Another Note
Some Ravnos with more knowledge than good 
sense spread the word a few years ago that a clan of 
Lupines called the Striders are related to us. Don’t 
believe it. I don’t know what a Strider is, but I’ve 
never met a Lupine I didn’t have good reason to run 
away from as quickly as possible.
Mayaparisatya: 
The Path of 
Paradox
For centuries, Ravnos in Europe and the Americas 
followed a Path of Paradox that taught them to treat 
mortals as cattle and to indulge every whim with no 
consideration beyond “cover your ass.”  They used it as 
an excuse to commit any crime or atrocity imaginable 
without concern for the consequences of their actions. 
Most of these Ravnos claimed they were following the 
tenets of Paradox in order to rationalize their increas-
ingly monstrous activities, and quite a few fell to the 
Beast over the years.
The Path of Paradox as practiced was a loathsome 
thing, not discussed outside Ravnos circles. If any 
Ventrue ever got wind of the practices espoused by 
Paradox advocates, they’d start a purge to equal the 
attack on the Assamites in ferocity and efficacy. It’s a 
wonder that never happened in the first place.
The True Path Returns
In the past decade, elder Ravnos awakened 
from deep torpor and spread into Europe and the 
Americas. When they saw what the neonates and 
ancillae of those continents called “Paradox,” they 
reacted with bloodthirsty horror and destroyed the 
worst offenders. The rest, they educated in new (or 
rather, very old) ways of Paradox, which they called 
mayaparisatya. 
The wordmayaparisatya is a Hindu construction. 
Maya describes Chimerstry almost literally — it means 
“illusion,” with connotations of supernatural power 
in certain contexts. It also refers to the illusion of 
the physical world we can all see and touch. Parisatya 
refers to absolute truth. The juxtaposition of the two 
is a koan, or a Zen riddle, like “What’s the sound of 
one hand clapping?” Understanding of mayaparisatya 
leads to true enlightenment. The means of that un-
derstanding comes through study and adherence to 
the Path of Paradox as created by Zapathasura, the 
Ravnos Antediluvian; at least that’s the name the 
Indian elders used. 
This version of the Path of Paradox focuses on 
the Ravnos’ condition as one of the Kindred, on the 
reasons for being Kindred and how Ravnos fit in the 
world, especially in relation to the other Kindred — 
Western and Eastern. This is not to say that Paradox is 
a peaceful or forgiving path. It demands the destruction 
of Kindred who refuse to adhere to its precepts, as they 
damage the world simply by existing. It demands an 
individualist approach to unlife, with respect — not 
love — for mortals.
The Svadharma
Paradox teachings state that all Kindred are 
locked outside the cycle of samsara, life and death. 
The Embrace locks the Ravnos out of natural rein-
carnation, at least until her destruction. Paradox 
doctrine teaches that once Embraced, the soul loses 
all karma and must reestablish its dharma as one of 
the Kindred.
In order to advance her dharma, a Ravnos must 
understand and eventually penetrate maya. Accord-
ing to the teachings, the clan’s continued failure to 
fully understand this leaves them mired in the curses 
of undeath — death by fire or the light of the sun, 
and the unending thirst for blood. Ravnos who are 
very advanced in the study of Paradox believe that 
once maya is transcended, a Shilmulo can likewise 
transcend these curses, and no longer suffer from 
the sun’s light, the burning flames or the need for 
blood. Other Kindred may recognize this as similar 
to Golconda, and a few of the most ancient Ravnos 
have claimed in their writings that Golconda springs 
from the Path of Paradox.
Ravnos who follow the Path of Paradox must 
learn their purpose — their svadharma — and ad-
vance it at every opportunity. This is not as simple 
as it sounds, and no two Ravnos have quite the same 
svadharma. One may decide that he must ignore 
the temptations the Beast presents to him, while 
another may decide that she must give in whenever 


Clanbook: Ravnos
58
possible. Whatever the svadharma, the Ravnos must 
spend every waking moment trying to understand 
and achieve it. A Ravnos who loses track of his 
svadharma — one who falls under a blood bond or 
gives up his freedom to serve another — will quickly 
fall to the Beast as he discovers that he cannot find 
his way on another’s path.
Paradox adherents, known as Shilmulo (from 
another Hindu word for this wretched state), view 
Kindred who aren’t on the path as inferior, misguided 
or actively dangerous. Since Kindred who don’t follow 
the path can’t be trusted to seek out their svadharma, 
Paths of Enlightenment
Ravnos do not follow only the Path of Paradox. The path’s tenets make it exceedingly difficult to follow 
while remaining a constructive part of a sect, especially the Sabbat. The prohibition against blood bonds 
means that any Paradox follower will find a new set of morals or descend fully into the Beast’s grasp through 
the constant influence of the Vinculum. Ravnos antitribu look elsewhere to satisfy their philosophical needs, 
should humanity wither within them.
Path of Caine: Some of the oldest Ravnos antitribu turned to the Path of Caine in direct rebellion against 
the teachings of the Path of Paradox and their elders. They dove headlong into the Sabbat teachings about 
Caine and the Antediluvians and denied the Ravnos lore surrounding Cainite origins. 
Path of Cathari: Some Ravnos are attracted to this path because it offers justification for their more 
complex amoral urges (the clan weakness). Ravnos on the Path of Cathari tend to refine and practice their 
particular vice until it becomes a high art — at least in the eyes of fellow Sabbat. Other followers of Cathari 
tend to find the Ravnos’ innate grasp of vice enviable.
Path of Death and the Soul: Former followers of the Path of Paradox often switch to this path, if only 
for the common thread regarding the fate of the soul after death. This is not to say that adherents feel the 
two paths are generally similar, only that their similar notions of the soul’s fate serve as a useful starting 
point. Ravnos whose vice turns them toward murder are also often drawn to this path to better understand 
their urges.
Path of Evil Revelations: Ravnos antitribu, like the Kindred of their parent clan, are strong individual-
ists and find it difficult to give their allegiance to a greater power, no matter how evil or depraved it may 
claim to be. A Ravnos who finds his own way is admired much more than one who follows in the footsteps 
of the Devil.
Path of the Feral Heart: Due to the sophisticated nature of a Ravnos’ Beast, Rogues find this path 
difficult to follow. The path is based in the Beast’s more primitive urges and needs, and the Ravnos Beast 
tends to focus on more refined concerns.
Path of Honorable Accord: Few Ravnos antitribu follow this path, but those who do are deeply com-
mitted to its tenets. Some may find it more difficult to follow because of their addiction to vice, but this 
path usually strengthens the Rogue’s resolve to behave properly.
Path of Lilith: Ravnos typically attracted to this path tend to be those few interested in pursuing rumored 
connections with the Gangrel and the idea that both clans somehow sprang from Lilith. Others adopt this 
path simply to wallow in heresy against the Sabbat’s doctrines without pledging fealty to a demonic power.
Path of Power and the Inner Voice: Rogues typically do not turn to this path, but those who do pursue 
it with a ruthless efficiency that even the Lasombra admire (as long as the Rogues’ depredations aren’t aimed 
at them). Ravnos antitribu on this path most often seek power not for its own sake, but simply to make it 
easier for them to do whatever they want whenever they want, though they rarely use their power foolishly. 
While few Ravnos care to give fealty to another, most are willing to accept it when offered.
let alone understand what it means, Shilmulo take it 
upon themselves to find out other Kindred’s svadharma, 
so they can guide them to it. Those who refuse to 
follow are destroyed, if possible. They are simply too 
uncontrolled and dangerous to be allowed to exist. 
Those few who learn are taught the basics of the 
Path of Paradox and may in time become Shilmulo.
This isn’t to say that Paradox followers are 
ruthless murderers of their fellow Kindred. Rather, 
Shilmulo see their cause as a holy one, and they 
are more than satisfied to make converts. It takes 
a long time and great commitment to transcend 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
59
one’s mortal moral code and adopt the one better 
suited to unlife. And so, as the Shilmulo reason, 
those earnestly wishing to make the change have 
forever to enact it.
Starting on the Path
The beginnings of the Path of Paradox must be 
taught — as with any path of enlightenment, they 
do not come naturally to Kindred without tutelage. 
Unlike many other paths, once the student has taken 
her first steps, she’s on her own. Paradox stresses that 
each Ravnos must find her own way, and she cannot 
do that by holding onto the coattails of her elders. 
A Shilmulo may seek advice from a more advanced 
adherent, but she should not expect to get an easily 
deciphered answer. 
Very few Paradox adherents survived the Week of 
Nightmares, and those who did are not easy to find. 
A Ravnos who finds writings, such as the Karava-
lanisha Vrana, may use those as a guide for study and 
advancement (assuming he can translate from the 
original Sanskrit). 
Disciplines
As told by Desiree Narayan, anarch historian
Whether combating the asuratizayya or weather-
ing the fallout of the Week of Nightmares, the Ravnos 
are no strangers to the gifts of Caine. Some reason 
that the First Vampire armed his childer with the 
weapons to fight the eternal Jyhad, while hardline 
Shilmulo argue that only through understanding the 
ways of undeath can an individual achieve svadharma.
Animalism
The Animalism Discipline is often underesti-
mated and overlooked. It lacks the flash and style of 
Disciplines like Chimerstry. So you can summon a 
pack of dogs or a flock of birds; what’s the big deal? 
For the Ravnos, Animalism is probably their most 
useful Discipline if applied in an intelligent fashion. 
It demands subtlety and planning to a degree that 
even Chimerstry does not require. Many Ravnos 
consider Animalism an extension of their Beast, 
which they see as more evolved than that of other 
clans. It whispers to them in the night and pushes 
them to commit sophisticated acts of malice beyond 
those inspired in the frenzy. While this compul-
sion is by no means an advantage, it gives Ravnos 
a greater understanding of their Beasts and makes 
it easier for them to communicate with the Beasts 
of others. A Ravnos using Animalism can, to a 


Clanbook: Ravnos
60
limited extent, perceive another’s Beast while using 
the Discipline on that individual. Rather than an 
extra-sensory ability like Auspex, Animalism gives 
a sense of another’s animal consciousness — that 
part of the mind that drives others to blind rage or 
unreasoning panic. The Ravnos doesn’t really deal 
with the person or animal, but the Beast within that 
person or animal. 
Consider the possibilities with Feral Whispers 
or Beckoning. The first enables the Ravnos to speak 
with animals and give them instructions. For example, 
a Ravnos who decides to spy on an elder’s haven can 
call upon nearby animals to patrol the area and return 
if they find anything unusual — like someone slink-
ing around the haven. There is no guarantee that this 
strategy will work and it does require a modicum of 
effort, but the chance for success is probably worth the 
payoff. Beckoning simply summons animals — poten-
tially, all animals of a given species in the immediate 
area. Uses for this ability include feeding or finding 
the sentries mentioned previously. Neither of these 
powers really lets the user communicate well with 
animals, and never mind trying to discuss complex 
topics. Nonetheless, the uses within the restrictions 
of the Discipline are nearly limitless.
Quell the Beast is frequently an effective way of 
dealing with mortals or noisome animals. If a watchdog 
gets in the way, use Quell the Beast to calm it down. 
Mortals under this ability’s influence are particularly 
suggestible and none will defend themselves, making 
Quell the Beast ideal for feeding or for convincing 
irritating people to keep their distance. Though less 
versatile than Dominate or Presence, for what it does, 
it manages very well.
Subsume the Spirit is the most useful and risky 
application of Animalism. A Ravnos who transfers 
her consciousness into an animal risks losing her 
sense of self and identity to the animal’s instincts. 
Some Ravnos are vastly uncomfortable with the loss 
of control experienced during and after the posses-
sion, and so prefer to avoid using this ability unless 
necessary. Subsume the Spirit makes it possible for a 
Ravnos to personally search an area without physi-
cally going there and lessens the need to rely on the 
perceptions of other animals who are likely to miss 
what the Ravnos needs to know.
Drawing Out the Beast sees infrequent use, though 
several Ravnos survived the Week of Nightmares 
thanks to quick thinking and intelligent usage of 
this ability. Even more so than Subsume the Spirit, 
Drawing Out the Beast is best saved for when you 
really need it. 
Fortitude
Animalism has immense utility, Chimerstry 
provides extensive versatility, but Fortitude is a 
literal ass-saver. This Discipline makes it easier to 
survive the slings, arrows and fires of outrageous 
fortune. Even better, it might give you that extra 
edge you need to survive a Gangrel’s claws. It’s not 
a cure-all, but it’s vastly better than nothing. Learn 
it, love it and use it.
Chimerstry
Everyone knows our reputation for deceit, not the 
least of which is our ability with Chimerstry. I don’t 
know how it works or what it does, but it’s probably 
the most versatile trick you’ll see Kindred waving 
around anywhere. Unfortunately, we have a reputation 
for using it in obvious and stupid ways, which prob-
ably leads to Ravnos being escorted out of any given 
domain (often strapped to the front of the sheriff’s 
classic Mustang). If any of you get the urge to run out 
somewhere and start weaving illusions that look like 
they belong in the movies, I suggest you write up your 
final will right now and let the rest of us get on with 
our unlives. Like we need any more jackasses fucking 
shit up for us.
Chimerstry is our most useful weapon, if used 
well. Images of the King of the Monsters stomping 
all over the city aren’t good uses and you shouldn’t 
abuse the power in such a way. Save it for subtler ap-
plications — draw a gun, distract others with sudden 
and unexpected noises or make something look like 
Option for Drawing Out the Beast
The Ravnos Beast, as described on page 49, differs 
somewhat from that of other Kindred. It is part of the 
driving force behind the clan’s predilection for forbid-
den activity. Because of this link, some Storytellers 
may rule that a Ravnos can choose to use Drawing 
Out the Beast when she is driven to succumb to her 
weakness. The drawback is that the new vessel might 
be better at the chosen crime or simply more willing 
to commit it than the Ravnos was. If this is the case 
(at Stoyteller’s discretion), it may be difficult or im-
possible to regain the Beast. Because of this hazard, 
Ravnos tend to kill anyone who has served as a vessel 
for their Beast, no matter what the use.
Players should not use this option to circumvent 
the clan weakness. After all, any Ravnos who uses 
Drawing Out the Beast suffers the consequences 
outlined in Vampire: The Masquerade, page 149. 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
61
What is Chimerstry?
Players and Storytellers alike are often uncertain as to what Chimerstry actually represents and how it 
works. Another common concern is that Chimerstry doesn’t readily tie into the vampire mythos.
Bear the following in mind.
Chimerstry is not Obfuscate
Chimerstry can’t make anything “invisible.” Unlike Obfuscate, Chimerstry does affect cameras, motion 
detectors and other technological sensing devices (but it won’t trigger tripwires or pressure plates). Chim-
erstry derives from the Ravnos’ ability to visualize an image and bring it to life and doesn’t rely so much on 
the human mind’s tendency to fill in the blanks, at least not to the extent that Obfuscate does.
Disbelief 
This is a tough one — just because a character knows that a Ravnos can create illusions is not sufficient 
reason to disbelieve everything a Ravnos does. If the Ravnos draws a kris from her purse, it very well could 
be a real kris. Belief is not like a water faucet. Characters can’t simply turn it on or off at will. On the other 
hand, a completely implausible illusion won’t convince anyone. Either way, the fact that someone has a 
good reason to disbelieve a Ravnos’ Chimerstry-created images does not mean those images will vanish. 
The false nature of such images is obvious to any who can penetrate the illusion, but the illusion will remain 
until it would otherwise disappear.
How Much Area Can Chimerstry Cover?
As much as the Storyteller deems reasonable. If a Ravnos wants to conjure an image of an ancient, 
chthonic, tentacled deity rising from the ocean, he can. The illusion probably won’t convince anyone, but 
there’s no reason the image will fail to appear.
Horrid Reality vs. High Auspex
Auspex and Chimerstry work against each other in the same manner as Auspex vs. Obfuscate (see 
Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 152). If a Ravnos inflicts Horrid Reality against another Kindred who has 
Auspex at level five, the interaction occurs as described in the core rules. If the victim has more Auspex 
than the Ravnos has Chimerstry, the power fails automatically. Harsh luck.
Chimerstry Isn’t Vampiric
Some people have strict definitions of what fits into traditional vampire tales. Their views may be as 
narrow as what Stoker’s Dracula could do, or perhaps as broad as whatever appeared in European legends. 
Either way, strict definitions imply that a body of legend is obliged to stop growing at some point and never 
add anything new. This is not necessary or required. Anyone who’s seen Lost Boys probably recalls the se-
quence with the rice disguised momentarily as maggots. This is a good example of Chimerstry in a vampire 
story — a very recent story, certainly, but how does a story’s age invalidate it? Indeed, Chimerstry is a fine 
way to evoke psychological horror.
It’s not that Chimerstry is somehow “not vampiric,” but rather that it’s rarely used in a manner that 
supports the themes running through Vampire. How can a Storyteller maintain a game of “personal hor-
ror” when the Ravnos conjures up stock-fantasy tropes or near-comical absurdities? In the hands of a clever 
Kindred, Chimerstry is a potent tool — it can be used to cover or prevent Masquerade breaches, to add 
subtle touches to a scene, to drive mortals (or other Kindred) to their mental limits and the like. It works 
best when its use isn’t obvious. Use Chimerstry to reinforce the mood rather than break it.
something else. Make sure your illusions are plausible 
and in context for the situation at hand. 
What is Chimerstry?
For every Ravnos I’ve spoken with, I have at least 
three theories about why we have this knack for il-
lusions. I’m going to go with material my colleagues 
have translated from the Karavalanisha Vrana and try 
to establish what it is from that.
The Karavalanisha Vrana describes Chimerstry 
as a way to warp or twist the surface of maya. Maya 
is what we call “reality.” It’s an illusion that over-


Clanbook: Ravnos
62
lays whatever the “really” real world is. Apparently, 
it extends through several levels from the purely 
physical to the purely spiritual (bear with me; I’m 
not an expert on this stuff). What Chimerstry can 
do is take something from the realm of pure spirit, 
or thought, and make it appear in the realm of the 
physical, or “pure illusion.” Paradoxically, Chimerstry 
rarely manifests substance, often giving the appear-
ance of tactile presence. Ravnos who have mastered 
Chimerstry can go a step further and inflict terrible 
injuries simply by imagining them. This is a drain-
ing and costly process that’s rarely used, but no one 
would want to experience it.
Even the truly horrible wounds aren’t real — they 
fade with time. If you convince a mortal he burned 
to death, he may be in a coma for years. When he 
awakens, he won’t have any scars or other signs of 
the trauma. Psychologically, he’ll probably be an utter 
mess, but no physical signs remain.
I’ve come across some hair-raising rumors about 
the kinds of tricks the elders and Methuselahs could 
pull off. It’s hard to test the stories, though, because 
all our evidence indicates they’ve gone into hiding or 
torpor, or else that something destroyed them during 
that terrible week last summer. On the chance that 
some are still out there, I’ll pass along what I know. 
I’ve heard of elders who could inflict psychosomatic 
injuries across a crowd of mortals or Kindred. Other 
rumors include actual physical effects — not illu-
sions, but the real thing. Personally, I’d be pleased 
as punch to hear these monsters are all dead. I don’t 
like the idea of some elder getting a burr up his ass 
and projecting violent flaming death at my brain 
from halfway around the world. The best piece of 
advice I can give you is that if you meet an elder 
Ravnos, just assume she can do whatever she damn 
well pleases.
False Resonance  
(Chimerstry Level Six)
Illusions of living or unliving beings are all well 
and good until someone decides to read the illusion’s 
mind or its aura. The automatic failure to perceive 
any sense of the target’s thoughts or emotions will 
usually be passed off as bad luck or simple lack of 
concentration, or whatever reason any Kindred 
might construct to explain why he didn’t succeed in 
gleaning information through supernatural means. A 
Ravnos can use False Resonance to overlay auras and 
thoughts on illusions, as well as leave a trace that 
other emotionally resonant powers can detect later.
System: This power automatically applies to any 
other use of Chimerstry as the user wishes. In effect, 
any attempt to use Auspex or the Dementation power, 
Eyes of Chaos, that generates five or fewer successes 
will detect an aura, thoughts, Demeanor or whatever 
the power would normally detect. Thoughts won’t be 
exceptionally complex, and will relate to whatever 
is going on around the illusion in a mundane and 
simplistic way. Auras will consist of colors related 
to specific emotions (anger, sadness, hatred, love 
and happiness) and will not show much complexity 
beyond that. Spirit’s Touch can pick up the same 
emotional resonance until the next sunrise.
MET System: This is an Elder level Discipline. 
It applies to any illusions the Ravnos creates. When 
another Kindred uses a Discipline like Aura Perception 
or Telepathy, resolve it normally against the Ravnos’ 
current Mental Traits. If the Ravnos player wins the 
challenge, he (or a Storyteller) provides the false in-
formation in the illusion. This information can only 
be something simple as noted above. Any attempt to 
delve deeper than surface thoughts will reveal noth-
ing — the illusion has only surface thoughts.
Fatuus Mastery  
(Chimerstry Level Six)
A Ravnos with Fatuus Mastery has no restric-
tion on how often she may use the first three levels 
(Ignis Fatuus, Fata Morgana and Apparition) and can 
maintain or control illusions with minimal concentra-
tion or fatigue. Kindred who rely on the high cost of 
Chimerstry to limit a Ravnos’ ability to use illusions 
are in for a very rude surprise when they encounter a 
Ravnos with this power.
System: Fatuus Mastery negates the Willpower and 
Blood cost for using the first three levels of Chimerstry. 
In addition, the Ravnos may direct movement for a 
number of illusions equal to his Intelligence without 
intense concentration. Furthermore, the character 
can maintain the illusion as long as it remains within 
his Willpower score in miles (although he may not 
make it react to events around it if he has no way to 
perceive those events).
MET System: Fatuus Mastery is an Elder level 
Chimerstry power. The player need not expend Blood 
Traits or Willpower to use the Basic and first Interme-
diate Chimerstry Disciplines. Illusions can engage in 
complex activities as if the Ravnos were concentrat-
ing on maintaining the illusion, but concentration is 
not necessary. The illusion will remain until sunrise, 
unless the player spends blood to make it permanent.


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
63
Shared Nightmare  
(Chimerstry Level Six)
Even though Horrid Reality is visible to all on-
lookers, it can only inflict “damage” on one victim. 
With Shared Nightmare, a Ravnos can inflict her 
tormented visions on a crowd. 
System: To use this power, the player must 
spend one blood point per target and two Willpower 
points. The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge 
once, but compares the results against each target 
individually. The difficulty is still each victim’s 
Perception + Self-Control.
Example: A pack of five Lupines have cornered 
Lizette in a blind alley. She turns to face them, pulls a 
shotgun out of her tote bag and aims it at the rampaging 
werewolves. She doesn’t actually fire, choosing instead 
to invoke Shared Nightmare. Her player spends two 
Willpower points and five blood points to inflict the 
power on all five Lupines. Since the Lupines are relatively 
young, the Storyteller assigns them Perception scores of 
three and Self-Control scores of two, making the dif-
ficulty five. The player rolls Lizette’s  Manipulation + 
Subterfuge and receives three successes. Lizette’s player 
describes the illusion as “riddling the Lupines’ bodies 
with silver shot,” and inflicts three levels of aggravated 
damage on each of the victims. The Lupines obligingly 
fly into pain-addled frenzies, buying Lizette a few pre-
cious seconds to plan her escape route.
MET System: Shared Nightmare is an Elder 
level Chimerstry Discipline. To use this power in 
Mind’s Eye Theater, the Ravnos player must spend 
one Willpower Trait per target, up to a maximum of 
five. The player needs to bid only one Social Trait 
against all of the targets and engage in a Social 
Challenge — everyone throws, this is not a group 
challenge. Traits are compared individually, and 
those who lose the challenge suffer the effects of 
the Shared Nightmare. Mechanics are otherwise 
identical to Horrid Reality.
Far Fatuus  
(Chimerstry Level Seven)
This power is the province of the Phuri Dae, who 
use it in conjunction with highly developed Auspex 
powers. It allows a Ravnos to project illusions to any 
area he can see or visualize. Under most circumstances, 
accomplishing this requires him to have visited the 
location in question before he can project illusions 
there. Although more difficult, a Ravnos may project 
illusions on the basis of a description, a photograph 
or a television image.


Clanbook: Ravnos
64
System: The difficulty for using Far Fatuus depends 
on the user’s familiarity with the location. The player 
must roll Perception + Subterfuge to affect the location. 
Once this roll is successful, the Ravnos may then use 
any other Chimerstry power on that location.
Difficulty	
Familiarity
6	
As familiar as one’s haven; currently viewing 
with Clairvoyance or Psychic Projection
7	
Visited three or more times
8	
Visited once; viewing on a live feed camera
9	
Described in detail
10	 Never been there; seen it on television or have 
a photograph
MET System: Far Fatuus is a Master level Chim-
erstry Discipline. To use this power, the character 
must be familiar with the location in question. In 
addition, the player must spend one Willpower Trait 
and succeed in a Static Mental Challenge against 
10 Traits. If successful, the illusion appears in the 
designated area and performs as the character directs. 
Players can use this power with any other Chimerstry 
power. If the location is in the character’s line of sight 
(either through a telescope or an Auspex power like 
Clairvoyance), then the Willpower expenditure is 
not necessary.
Suspension of Disbelief  
(Chimerstry Level Seven)
A Ravnos with this power can imbue her Chim-
erstry with a sense of reality that makes it easier for 
viewers to believe in the illusion. No matter how strange 
or surreal the illusion is, an onlooker will accept it as 
real. If the illusion is wildly unrealistic (fire-breathing 
dragons, a pack of gray aliens), once it is no longer in 
his sight, the observer will question what he saw and 
eventually deny the event ever happened. A Ravnos 
can also use this power to make something appear 
unbelievable, whether it’s real or not. In this case, 
observers will write off what they’re seeing as some 
kind of trick or hallucination. 
System: The player rolls Manipulation + Subter-
fuge (difficulty 7). The number of successes determines 
how many witnesses are affected. If the player uses the 
power to make something look unbelievable, Auspex 
will show the thing in question to be an illusion un-
less the Auspex score is high enough to penetrate the 
Ravnos’ Chimerstry.
1 success	
Five people
2 successes	 10 people
3 successes	 25 people
4 successes	 50 people
5 successes	 Everyone who can see it
MET System: Suspension of Disbelief is a Master 
level Chimerstry Discipline. To use it, the Ravnos 
player must spend three Social Traits, and anyone who 
witnesses the illusion and has a reason to disbelieve it 
must win a Static Social Challenge (difficulty equals the 
Ravnos’ current Social Traits) or believe implicitly that 
it’s real, no matter how outrageous. The Ravnos may 
also use this power on something real, causing others 
to doubt its veracity.
Occlusion (Chimerstry Level Eight)
A Ravnos who masters this power can shuffle 
others’ senses around to suit his preferences. He can 
select one target and inflict a serious, disorienting 
and all-encompassing case of synesthesia upon her, 
making it impossible for her to interact meaningfully 
Notes on Horrid Reality
Horrid Reality is an expensive power that is 
often difficult to use. For two Willpower points, 
players expect to get something out of it. However, 
keep in mind that the power continues to work for 
the entire scene and during that time, the victim 
perceives the illusion as absolutely real. While a 
speeding car created with Fata Morgana won’t run 
anyone down, a car created with Horrid Reality is a 
deadly threat to its “victim” for the scene. A bonfire 
will burn the victim every time he steps near it for 
the duration of the scene. An illusionary stake will 
find the heart unerringly and immobilize the victim 
throughout the scene.
Illusionary damage inflicted with Horrid Re-
ality can’t be soaked — the Ravnos assaults the 
victim’s mind and perceptions, not his body. The 
only defenses against this power are high scores in 
Perception and Self-Control, or sufficient Auspex 
to see through the illusion.
When players use Horrid Reality (or any Chim-
erstry power), reward creativity. The power demands 
unusual applications, especially when compared 
to more direct and physical Disciplines such as 
Thaumaturgy or Potence. On the other hand, don’t 
reward players for blatantly silly or preposterous uses 
of Chimerstry. It’s best applied in subtle and believ-
able ways. The Ravnos who uses Horrid Reality to 
say “A flying saucer zips out of the clouds and shoots 
you with its anti-life ray gun” should probably suffer 
a penalty unless he’s using it on some slack-jawed 
yokel who’s plausibly inclined to believe it.


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
65
with the real world for the power’s duration. The 
Ravnos has complete control over how the target’s 
senses work and can manipulate them to suit. For 
example, he may decide that she smells all sounds 
as varieties of nauseating stenches, or more subtly, 
he may exchange pain for pleasure. Against a crowd, 
sensations are randomly shuffled, so one man will see 
what the woman next to him sees, but hears what 
the man 15 feet behind him hears and feels what the 
child a block away feels. The end result is extremely 
disorienting for all victims.
System: When used against a single victim, the 
player must spend one Willpower point and roll 
Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty is victim’s 
Willpower). For use against crowds, the difficulty is 
7, and the power affects everyone within the Ravnos’ 
line of sight and subtracts one point from Perception 
per success rolled. Victims whose Perception has been 
reduced to zero can only sit down and wait for the 
disorientation to end. Duration against a single vic-
tim is determined below. Against a crowd, the power 
persists until sunrise.
1 success	
One week
2 successes	 One month
3 successes	 Six months
4 successes	 One year
5 successes	 Permanent
MET System: Occlusionis an Ascendant level 
Chimerstry Power. To use this power, the player must 
spend one point of Willpower and win a Static So-
cial Challenge against a difficulty of 12 Traits. If he 
wins the Challenge, he must spend one Social Trait 
per target affected. Affected targets must spend one 
Willpower Trait to act at all, and must bid two Traits 
in all challenges. Furthermore, they automatically 
lose on ties, even if they have a Discipline or other 
power that grants them the ability to win on ties. This 
power lasts until sunrise or until the Ravnos voluntarily 
releases the targets.
Mayaparisatya  
(Chimerstry Level Nine)
Arguably the philosopher’s stone for Shilmulo, this 
penultimate expression of Chimerstry allows the Rav-
nos to directly alter or create real objects or creatures, 
although such changes are of finite duration. A Ravnos 
with this power can transform the air around a rival 
Kindred into fire or render a locked door insubstantial. 
A more harrowing use of this power enables the Ravnos 
to force an object out of existence by transforming it 
into nothing more than a wisp of its former reality. 


Clanbook: Ravnos
66
Path of Paradox philosophers point to this power 
as the only “true” use of Chimerstry, claiming all oth-
ers are distractions or stepping stones to this profound 
understanding. Since the Week of Nightmares, it’s 
likely that no surviving Ravnos has mastered Chim-
erstry to this degree.
System: To use this power, the player must spend 
10 blood points and one permanent Willpower point 
and roll Manipulation + Subterfuge. Difficulty for 
the roll is 6 for affecting inanimate objects, and the 
victim’s Willpower score for affecting characters. 
This power can affect anything within miles of the 
Ravnos, as long as the character is aware of the target 
in some way. If used with Far Fatuus, the effects are 
centered on the chosen location. This power can 
New Derangement:  
Dissociative Perceptions Syndrome
Since the Week of Nightmares, Chimerstry 
hasn’t behaved quite the same as it did before. 
Theories range from the notion that the Antedi-
luvian’s death somehow changed the Discipline’s 
nature, or that his existence buffered Ravnos 
from more extreme effects. Another theory states 
that the final curse the Antediluvian laid upon 
the clan as he was destroyed distorted Chim-
erstry’s effects. Whatever the reason, Ravnos 
who indulge in Chimerstry often slowly lose 
the ability to distinguish between what is real 
and what is not. 
At first, the Ravnos suffers as if from the 
Dementation power, The Haunting (Vampire: 
The Masquerade, p. 155). This happens after a 
Ravnos has completely depleted his Willpower 
reserves (zero temporary Willpower) to create a 
Chimerstry illusion. Whenever the player spends 
all of the character’s Willpower, the character 
suffers from The Haunting.
If the Ravnos continues to overuse Chim-
erstry, he experiences full-sensory hallucinations. 
These hallucinations can happen at any time, 
especially moments of great stress. They can range 
from seeing a friend as an enemy (or vice versa) to 
seeing a busy street as completely empty. The hal-
lucinations start at relatively low scale and build 
up over time until they become potentially threat-
ening to the Ravnos’ continued existence. If the 
Ravnos realizes he’s experiencing hallucinations, 
the player can spend one point of Willpower to 
negate the hallucinations for a scene.


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
67
affect a number of conscious targets equal to the 
Ravnos’ Willpower per use.
When dealing with inanimate objects, the 
number of successes determines how drastic the 
alteration may be. No matter how many successes 
the player rolls, the duration is always a scene. This 
power can affect any objects of a type within the 
Ravnos’ area affected.
1 success	
Render an object harmless (swords 
won’t cut, firearms won’t shoot), create a large volume 
of obscuring smoke
2 successes	
Change an object into another object 
(turn candles into tarantulas, etc.)
3 successes	
Render the object insubstantial, make 
smoke solid
4 successes	
Cause drastic changes (stone becomes 
highly flammable)
5 successes	
Cause the environment to behave 
illogically (gravity twists sideways, rivers stand still as 
hills flow upward)
6+ successes	Delete any offending material objects 
from existence. This effect is permanent (to use this on 
conscious targets, follow the system described below).
For example, Marizhavashti Kali is awakened from her 
centuries-long slumber by the entrance of hunters into her 
haven. Shaking the cobwebs of centuries from her mind, 
she sees four hunters approach her with stakes ready. She 
focuses her full power on the stakes, transforming them 
into deadly spitting cobras.
When using the power on conscious targets, con-
sult the table above for alterations (such as forcing 
the victim into another form or transforming her into 
a different substance). If using the power to negate 
the victim’s existence, the power inflicts two levels 
of unsoakable aggravated damage per success. If the 
power doesn’t kill the victim, subtract one dot of 
Strength and Stamina per success. The damage must 
be healed normally, but the lost Attributes return 
at the end of the scene. Victims of this power look 
hazy and insubstantial. Victims destroyed with this 
power simply vanish.
MET System: Mayaparisatya is a Methuselah 
level Chimerstry Discipline. The player must spend 
10 Blood Traits to activate this power, and succeed 
in a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty six Traits) 
to affect an inanimate object, or succeed in a Men-
tal Challenge against conscious targets. If she wins 
the Challenge, the player may choose to spend one 
Mental Trait per aspect she changes in the target, 
or one Mental Trait per level of aggravated damage 
inflicted on the target. This damage may not be 
reduced with any Discipline, armor or equipment 
short of Methuselah level Fortitude. If used to alter 
inanimate objects, the power’s effects may be applied 
to every inanimate object within the Ravnos’ line 
of sight at no additional cost. The scope of effect is 
solely up to the player, but Storytellers are encour-
aged to veto any effect too outrageous.
Combination Disciplines
Throughout their history, Ravnos have been 
forced to adapt their Disciplines into new and unusual 
applications to better fight the asuratizayya, Gangrel 
and other enemies they’ve faced over the centuries. 
Prior to the Week of Nightmares, Ravnos elders in 
India spent decades and centuries first establishing 
the theoretical underpinnings for their Disciplines 
and then extrapolating combinations to grant them 
an advantage in their eternal war. A few of their 
techniques survived the clan’s ruination and include 
the following powers.
Sympathetic Agony  
(Chimerstry ••, Fortitude ••••)
The Kshatriya caste of India developed this power 
to shift the pain of wounds inflicted on them to their 
enemies. Whenever the target strikes a Ravnos us-
ing this power, the target feels the pain instead of 
the Ravnos. This power enabled Kshatriya to better 
survive their wounds and more quickly dispatch their 
enemies.
System: The player spends one blood point and 
rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty equals 
the victim’s Perception + Self-Control). Each success 
allows the Ravnos to ignore the pain from one health 
level and inflict that pain on the victim. The Ravnos 
still suffers from the wounds, she simply doesn’t feel 
it for a brief period. This power lasts for the duration 
of the scene.
Example: Sanjay is in melee combat with an asura-
tizayya. His player rolls 6 dice against the asuratizayya’s 
Perception + Self-Control and receives two successes. 
If the asuratizayya inflicts four health levels (Hurt) on 
Sanjay, the Ravnos suffers only the first two levels (to 
Wounded, or –1 to dice pools), and the asuratizayya also 
suffers as if he has taken two health levels (in addition to 
any he has already taken).
This power costs 20 experience points to learn.
MET System: The player spends one Blood Trait 
and engages in a Social Challenge (Intimidation re-
test) against the target. If successful, she may spend 
one Social Trait per level of damage the target can 


Clanbook: Ravnos
68
potentially suffer in her stead. Endurance does not 
block the pain inflicted with this power.
Sympathetic Agony costs 10 Experience Traits to 
learn and requires that the character already possess 
Basic Chimerstry and Intermediate Fortitude.
Heart’s Desire  
(Auspex ••••, Chimerstry ••)
With this power, a Ravnos can reach into a tar-
get’s heart and create an image of her greatest desire. 
This image always manifests as a material object. For 
example, if the target desires a specific lover, she’ll see 
a letter from that person professing his love. Phuri Dae 
and Brahman Ravnos use this power to gain influence 
over others. Many people, faced with their heart’s 
desire, ar likely to do anything to achieve it.
Note that simply creating the illusion does not 
automatically convince the target. This power grants 
the Ravnos a potential advantage, but it’s up to her 
to make use of it.
System: The player must spend a blood point and 
a Willpower point, then roll Intelligence + Subterfuge 
(difficulty is the target’s Willpower) to discern the 
target’s heart’s desire and create a reasonable facsimile. 
Three successes are necessary for this to work properly. 
Once the Ravnos creates the object, she can recreate 
it at will (so long as the player spends the blood point 
and Willpower point to create the illusion), unless the 
subject’s heart’s desire changes. 
This power costs 20 experience points to learn.
MET System: To use Heart’s Desire, the player 
must spend a Blood Trait and a Willpower Trait, then 
engage in a Mental Challenge against the target to 
discern her heart’s desire and create a reasonable 
facsimile. Once the Ravnos has used this power on a 
target, he can recreate the illusion at will using Fata 
Morgana normally. 
This power costs 10 Experience Traits to learn 
and requires that the character possess Intermediate 
Auspex and Basic Chimerstry.
Mask of Cathay (Animalism •••, 
Chimerstry •••)
Ravnos in Asia have had to learn several tricks 
to conceal their presence among the fanatical Eastern 
Kindred. One of the more common techniques is the 
ability to appear as an asuratizayya. This mask conceals 
the Ravnos’ nature as one of the Kindred descended 


Chapter Two: On the Art of Being Ravnos
69
from Caine and makes them appear to be asuratizayya 
for purposes of all tests.
This power does not grant the Ravnos any ability to 
learn Eastern Disciplines or adopt their Dharmic paths. 
It simply allows the Ravnos to misrepresent herself.
System: The player spends one Willpower 
point and one blood point and rolls Manipulation 
+ Subterfuge (difficulty 6). Each success the player 
gains on that roll represents one success an onlooker 
must overcome with the use of any power (Auspex, 
Kuei-jin Life sight, Death sight, etc.) to perceive 
the Ravnos as one of the Western Kindred. Other-
wise, senses show the Ravnos to be a yin-aspected 
Kuei-jin. If no roll is associated with the power, roll 
Perception + Alertness (difficulty 6). Eastern Mask 
lasts for only one night per use.
This power costs 15 experience points to learn. 
For more information on the Kindred of the East, or 
Juei-jin, see Kindred of the East.
MET System: For a Ravnos to use Eastern Mask, 
the player must spend one Willpower Trait and one 
Blood Trait to invoke the Mask until sunrise. During 
that time, the Ravnos is perceived through supernatural 
means as a yin-aspected Cathayan (see Laws of the 
East), not as one of the Kindred. 
Eastern Mask costs seven Experience Traits to learn 
and requires that the character possess Intermediate 
Animalism and Chimerstry.


Clanbook: Ravnos
70


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
71
Chapter Three: 
Orphans in  
Gehenna’s Wake
Frank and explicit — that is the right line to take when you wish to conceal your 
own mind and confuse the minds of others.
— Benjamin Disraeli
Among Kindred who know of the Ravnos, many hold stereotypical images 
of the Deceivers: “They’re merry Gypsies,” or “They’re 
like Malkavians, but with magic tricks.” This is partly 
because the most visible of the Ravnos often pander to 
the stereotypes that lead other Kindred to dismiss them 
as troublemakers. Given the clan’s current situation, 
however, most Ravnos aren’t interested in attracting 
undue attention any longer. Even before the Week of 
Nightmares, knowledge of their lineage often earned 
the Ravnos suspicion before they actually did anything, 
so why make it worse? The fact that others’ suspicions 
are usually justifiable only makes many Ravnos even 
less interested in advertising their presence openly.
In the Week of Nightmare’s wake, with the destruc-
tion of most of the Ravnos clan — many of whom were 
put down by scourges, sheriffs and others who saw them 
succumb to Zapathasura’s blood-rage — many Kindred 
believe that the Ravnos have been utterly destroyed. 
Elders who know that some Ravnos survive fear that 
their existence will hasten Gehenna, and are more than 
happy to destroy any they see. The majority of Kindred 
in the Final Nights don’t really know much either way, 
beyond rumors. Surviving, sensible Ravnos have little 
interest in taking chances. They’re hooking up with 
each other and trying to find out what happened to 
them. Most of all, they’re trying to avoid Final Death.
The Ravnos on the following pages are survivors — 
they’re not particularly interested in destabilizing the 
Camarilla (at least not in the near future), nor do they 
go out of their way to draw attention to themselves. 
Some are willing to watch each other’s backs only be-
cause the gesture is reciprocated, but they don’t really 
trust each other any more than they trust anyone else.


Clanbook: Ravnos
72
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Rogue
DEMEANOR: Judge
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Cleaner
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Chimerstry
Fortitude
Contacts
Generation
Resources
Status
Cleaner
Quote: I can remove your target and clean up the scene. 
No one will find a thing. Yes, my services are expensive, but the 
investment is worth it.
Prelude: You grew up a social outcast. Your parents never 
really understood why you weren’t happy among your peers, 
and you developed a strong misanthropic streak in response 
to the cruelty of children and later teenagers. Your introduc-
tion to the underworld and organized crime was abrupt and 
fortuitous, if shocking. 
You found a body in the trunk of your 
boyfriend’s car. When you confronted him 
about it, he stammered a few excuses until 
he realized you were suggesting how to 
dispose of it properly. It turned out he was 
a professional hitman. Impressed with your 
ability to clear a scene of evidence and bod-
ies, he let you in on his “business,” which 
also led to better lovemaking — the idea 
of killing with his girlfriend aroused him.
Of course, it was too good to last. 
Your lover got the job he couldn’t finish, 
and the target got him. He was hired 
to kill a newcomer to the local 
underworld, someone who 
had established new opera-
tions and was impinging 
heavily on established turf 
boundaries. Unfortunately, 
the target was too tough to 
kill with one shot, and your 
boyfriend never got a chance 
for the second. Staring death in 
the eye, you did the only thing 
you could — you ran.
For several months afterward, 
your boyfriend’s former boss tried to 
hire you for more jobs, while you tried 
to lay low. You knew your lover’s final 
target was still up and about and prob-
ably knew where to find you. When you 
saw him nearby every few nights, casu-
ally walking past or sipping coffee at 
the same Starbucks, you knew he was 
stalking you. When you tried to leave 
town, he followed you and gave you 
an offer you couldn’t refuse.
Now you know why the first 
shot didn’t kill him and you’ve de-
veloped a taste for killing that you’re 
not entirely comfortable with.
Concept: You’ve never liked 
people much, except on a rare in-
dividual basis. You’ve had a string 
of boyfriends that ended with the 
hitman, but you never really felt close 
to any of them. You hate your sire and 
look forward to destroying him. Your 
crime is the perfect murder. You prefer 
targets who are hard to get, but will 
often stalk some-
one who catches 
your eye simply for 
the satisfaction of the 
hunt. You cannot leave 
any evidence of your killing, ever.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re a borderline so-
ciopath, balanced somewhere between honest 
dislike of humanity and actual insecurity. You 
hide it behind a cool demeanor and like to give 
the impression you’re in complete control. 
The truth is that you would do anything to 
give up the unnatural taste for blood and 
death the Embrace foisted upon you.
Equipment: Sniper rifle, silenced pis-
tol, briefcase filled with tools like surgical 
gloves, wet napkins from a fried chicken 
franchise, binoculars, two-shot derrin-
ger,  executive wardrobe, 
penthouse apartment, 
Jaguar and a few gal-
lons of powerful acid.


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
73
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Cleaner
Ravnos
11th
Rogue
Judge
Chimerstry (Ignis Fatuus)
Fortitude (Endurance, Mettle)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding
 Intimidating x 2 
Alert
Observant x 2
Shrewd x 2
Crafts
Firearms
Politics
Agile
Dexterous x 2
Resilient x 2
Security
Stealth
Streetwise 
 
Contacts x 2
Generation x 2
Influence (Street x 2)
 Resources x 3
Steady
 Tenacious 
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Courier
Ravnos
12th
Conniver
Competitor
Animalism (Feral Whispers,
 Beckoning)
Fortitude (Endurance)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Eloquent
Friendly
 
Alert x 2
Determined x 2
Discerning 
Animal Ken
Drive
Stealth
Nimble x 2
Stalwart x 2
Tireless x 2
Streetwise x 2
Subterfuge
 
Allies x 3
Contacts x 3
Generation x 1
 Influence (Transportation x 1)
 Vigorous 
Witty x 2
Resources x 3


Clanbook: Ravnos
74
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conniver
DEMEANOR: Competitive
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Courier
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Fortitude
Allies
Contacta
Generation
Resources
Courier
Quote: Yes, I can get this package to Kuala Lumpur inside 
two hours and no one will know, but it will cost you big time.
Prelude: You started as a bagman for a Mafia family in New 
York City, but you learned that if you paid attention to where 
things were sent and to whom, you could assemble a sense of the 
bigger picture. In fact, you had a talent for deduction that your 
superiors never spotted. They never thought much of you and 
paid you little attention beyond sending you to deliver valuables 
across two states.
You eventually realized that you had no real future in the 
Mob, so you decided to branch out. With your knowledge of 
family operations, you figured you had a valuable commodity 
that your superiors would never know about. You needed to stay 
anonymous to do your thing, so you decided to sell your informa-
tion via the Internet. You studied computers so you could do what 
you had to do, and made a point of getting contact information 
for other gangs in the city. You knew enough people to spread 
the information about your new “service” without alerting your 
bosses, and it didn’t take long for you to acquire a regular 
clientele of satisfied customers. 
One of your customers was quite impressed with 
your initiative and creativity. She came to you in 
the night and made you an offer you thought was 
great — immortality. She told you that the family 
had caught on to your antics and the head had already 
ordered your execution. You didn’t want to give them 
the satisfaction, so you took her up on the offer.
After your Embrace, your sire introduced you 
to the Kindred and helped set you 
up as a courier during the Cama-
rilla’s siege of New York City. 
You helped deliver sensitive 
information and track Sabbat 
movements to the Camarilla’s 
benefit, and they’re still a little 
grateful. No one thinks you 
made a major difference, but 
every little bit helps.
Concept: You get sensi-
tive material from point A to 
point B with a minimum of 
fuss for other Kindred and 
occasionally a primogen 
might hire you. Camarilla 
Kindred treat you as some-
what neutral because you’re 
not a member of the sect, but 
that means they don’t entirely 
trust you. This means that some-
times you have to submit to 
uses of Disciplines so you 
can’t reveal what you’re 
transporting or otherwise 
betray your employers. Not 
that you would at this point; you 
know where the food is, and it’s not 
in betraying bloodsuckers who can 
rip your head off with a thought.
Your personal indulgence is 
calculated misinformation. You 
take what you know and build a 
picture of politics and events from that, but you use it 
to spread rumors that can create strife. You won’t be 
obvious about it, but you might casually mention 
to the Tremere primogen’s childe that you saw 
an Assamite lurking around the prince’s 
favored nightclub. You walk a thin line 
between giving too much information 
and too little, and the temptation to cross 
that line is always present. Eventually, 
you’ll give in.
Roleplaying Hints: Show deference 
and respect to Camarilla Kindred. You 
know they’re higher up in the “organiza-
tion” and that you can’t afford to rock the 
boat. That doesn’t mean you aren’t plan-
ning for the time when you can parlay 
your work into better standing (and 
acceptance), or possible betrayal of 
Camarilla operations to the Sabbat 
(if they offer the right price). Don’t 
rule out the possibility of using 
what you know to increase tension 
among the Kindred and thereby 
make your own business more 
lucrative. Just be careful 
about the controls and 
safeguards they implant.
Equipment: A 1994 
red Ford Taurus, a 9mm 
pistol with silencer, some-
what shabby clothes and a 
Pentium III computer system.
  


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
75
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Masochist
DEMEANOR: Fanatic
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 8th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Devil Slayer
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Fortitude
Generation
Herd
Paradox
Devil Slayer
Quote: Your existence serves no purpose. Now it ends.
Prelude: You were born in Nepal and served in the British 
regiment, the Royal Gurkha Rifles. Your unit remained with 
the British after India’s partition in 1947 and continued to 
serve Queen and Country as duty demanded. In the early ‘60s, 
your unit was assigned to Malaysia during what the govern-
ment called “confrontations.” You certainly got involved in 
a confrontation — in the middle of the night, no less.
Your unit fought bravely, but it’s not always easy to stand 
your ground when you’re facing the supernatural. You held out 
as best you could while men all around you died. You fought, 
battling fiends that could twist their bodies into monstrous 
shapes or even separate their heads to move independently — 
penangallan, the locals called them. Fortunately, some divine 
power was on your side, as several bloodthirsty monsters joined 
what remained of your unit and fought off the abominations.
You suffered mortal wounds in the fighting, but 
one of the new monsters took pity on you and 
gave you his vitae. The Embrace awakened 
you to the larger world — a darker world 
where monsters wage wars nightly for the 
right to exist. Your sire trained you in your 
new responsibilities as one of the Kshatriyas 
— a Ravnos warrior, with a duty to destroy 
monsters that have no reason to walk the Earth. 
Not too long ago, your sire sent you along 
with several other Ravnos to California to meet 
with an ancilla who was coordinating an 
investigation into increased asuratizayya 
activity in America. You spent the 
journey in a locked container in a 
freighter’s hold and in voluntary 
torpor. Disturbing and bloody 
dreams punctuated your 
slumber. When you arrived 
in California, your attempts 
to contact the ancilla Vivek 
Lalji proved fruitless, as 
did attempts to inform 
your sire of the situation.
Concept: You’re a 
warrior, but you try not 
to revel in bloodshed. The 
Beast would do otherwise, 
no matter how much you 
try to deny it. Despite your 
training, you hate to give 
in to it, so you try to avoid 
combat unless absolutely 
necessary. You resent hav-
ing been Embraced to fight 
a seemingly endless stream 
of asuratizayya and would 
much rather find some 
other means to deal 
with them — or even 
better, ignore them.
Violating the 
tenets of Paradox satis-
fies your need for criminality. 
You have adopted the Path of Paradox as your 
moral compass, but the restrictions chafe you, 
driving you to act against them. This 
means that you may never fully 
master the path, but you do not 
yet consider it an impossible 
obstacle.
Roleplaying Hints: 
You hate to be defined 
by your duty and mis-
sion, at least by others. 
You occasionally behave 
contrary to expectations. 
If others think you should 
be a stoic, silent warrior, 
you will be boisterous and 
undisciplined. If others 
expect you to be a thiev-
ing scoundrel (a common 
reaction when they learn 
your clan), you act as if 
such behavior is beneath 
you. You are starting to 
wonder if you’re simply 
a reflection of others 
around you and if your 
existence has become a 
matter of fighting one ex-
pectation after another.
Equipment: Ca-
sual clothing, kukri, .45 
ACP pistol, passport. 


Clanbook: Ravnos
76
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Devil Slayer
Ravnos
8th
Masochist
Fanatic
Animalism (Feral Whispers,
 Beckoning)
Fortitude (Endurance, Mettle)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding x 2
Intimidating
Disciplined x 2
 Intuitive x 2
Vigilant 
Crafts
Dodge
Firearms
Enduring x 2
Ferocious x 2
 Quick x 2
 Melee
Occult
Streetwise
 
Generation x 5
Herd x 1
Influence (Transportation x 1)
Path of Paradox
Tough
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Gun Runner
Ravnos
12th
Traditionalist
Deviant
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
Chimerstry (Ignis Fatuus)
 Fortitude (Endurance)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic x 2
Commanding x 2
Diplomatic
Attentive
Dedicated
Patient x 2
Reflective
Academics
Finance
Investigation
Quick
Tireless
Wiry
Law
Streetwise x 2 
 
Allies x 2
Contacts x 2
Generation x 1
Herd x 1
Empathetic
Expressive
Friendly
 
Influence (Street x 1)
Resources x 3
 Retainers x 2


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
77
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Traditionalist
DEMEANOR: Deviant
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Gun Runner
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Chimerstry
Fortitude
Allies
Contacts
Generation
Herd
Resources
Retainers
Gun Runner
Quote: You want it, I can get it. 9mm, 10mm, black talon, 
glaser. You name it. Of course none of it’s traceable. What do you 
think I am? Stupid?
Prelude: Born a minority on the wrong side of the tracks, 
you didn’t have many options for a lucrative career, at least not a 
legal one. To your credit, you tried to work within the system, but 
the system didn’t care about your competence or skill base, only 
about quotas. After you finally gave up, “affirmative action” was 
a four-letter word to you. Not ready to start flipping burgers, you 
looked up a cousin and told him you wanted a piece of the pie. 
At first, he didn’t take you seriously — after all, you had 
a reputation for honesty and following the law. That actually 
worked in your favor, once you convinced him that no one 
would expect you to be moving whatever illegal commodity 
needed transporting, so he gave you a chance. Within a year, 
you became his best runner. If he had anything impor-
tant, 
he gave it to you. Usually, it was firearms.
Not that you cared how your cargo was 
used. You’d just drive a hundred miles, 
picked up your load, drive back, drop it 
off, take your money and live life in the 
fashion to which you wanted to become 
accustomed. Everything was great until 
your usual contact at the other end of 
the pipeline changed. The new guy 
would only meet you after midnight, 
and you’d swear he followed you (with 
headlights off) for several miles after 
you made your pickup. Convinced he 
was stalking you, you tried to back 
out of the business, but your cousin 
wouldn’t have it. He said the new 
source would only deal with you.
This situation continued for 
six uncomfortable months before 
your contact revealed his true 
nature. He said he had a place 
for you in his organization, bigger, 
better and more profitable. You 
only had to die to join. He didn’t 
give you much choice; fighting back 
was like beating on a wall. 
Since your Embrace, your sire has 
had you running guns and equipment 
for anarchs in California. However, you 
recently flipped out on a back road and 
found yourself drenched in blood in some-
one’s farmhouse, surrounded by a dead family (whom 
you killed). You don’t know what caused the frenzy, 
and you’d really like to find out. Unfortunately, you 
haven’t been able to find your sire and the anarchs 
you met with have pulled up stakes. 
Concept: You’re using your contacts on the 
street and the underworld to keep up your business, so 
you can maintain your mobility and track down other 
Kindred who might know what the hell happened. 
You have vivid memories of a nightmarish battle 
fought through several days and vague impressions 
of the carnage you inflicted during that time.
You like to give people guns. You’d 
rather make them pay for it, but if you can get 
a firearm into the hands of (say) a troubled 
teen who’s likely to shoot up his high 
school, you’ll do it. This desire re-
pels you, but you can only resist 
the urge for so long before it 
becomes overwhelming.
Roleplaying Hints: Keep 
your distance from mortals 
and try to find Kindred who 
can tell you what’s up. Don’t 
look too eager or they’ll up 
the ante. You’re willing to 
work with anyone who can 
pay your price, and you try 
to present an aura of confi-
dence. Unfortunately, you 
come across as intensely 
frantic instead.
Equipment: Ford 
Expedition, casual middle-
class clothing (nothing too 
stylish — you’re trying to 
project a “normal” image, 
whatever that means), and 
an assortment of firearms 
you’d rather not use.
 


Clanbook: Ravnos
78
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Autocrat
DEMEANOR: Caregiver
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Immigrant
Smuggler
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Chimerstry
Fortitude
Allies
Contacts
Herd
Influence
Resources
Status
Immigrant Smuggler
Quote: Yes, Señor Esposito, I can get your family across the border 
and into Arizona and no border patrol will be the wiser. Trust me, I have 
it all covered.
Prelude: You grew up in a middle class family in a relatively normal 
neighborhood, but you weren’t exactly normal in the eyes of others. 
You were Rroma, and your grandparents died in the German death 
camps during the Second World War. Your parents came to America 
as children; somehow they managed to get a piece of the American 
dream and even buy a house. Your father teaches anthropology at a 
major university and your mother teaches physics at the same institution.
You didn’t give a huge amount of thought to your Rroma heritage, 
although your parents made certain you understood just what it meant 
and how much your people had suffered — and how fortunate you 
were now. The moment that drove your background home to you 
happened when you went to a favorite restaurant and saw an INS 
official going through employee records. The restaurant employed 
several Mexicans and so came under government 
scrutiny. When you later learned that more 
than half of the employees got deported 
back to Mexico and the business itself was 
fined, you wondered just what America 
represented. The inscription on Ellis 
Island reads, “Bring us your poor, your 
tired, your huddled masses.” How can 
that mean anything if the United States 
spends more time keeping people out 
than bringing them in?
All this reminded you of your 
family’s history — the Rroma and 
their separate culture have not 
been welcome anywhere for most 
of their history and were forced to 
travel simply to avoid more trouble 
than they could handle. Not that 
traveling helped when the Nazis 
decided to open their extermina-
tion camps. You weren’t happy, 
but you weren’t sure what to do. 
You started by talking to 
the restaurant owner. Once you 
convinced him of your sincerity, 
he introduced you to a few people 
and they helped you get started 
in the illegal immigration 
business. It didn’t take you 
long to become one of the 
best — you knew the patrols, 
studied INS strategy whenever 
you could and were otherwise 
careful and meticulous. You 
didn’t feel too guilty about 
charging for your services, 
since you needed to eat too.
Everything went 
smoothly for the first year 
or so, before the government 
caught up with you. You 
were looking at prison time 
and worse, just for helping 
others find their dreams or escape 
their nightmares. The small pack of 
motorcyclists who were right behind 
you when the agents stopped you turned out to be 
your saving grace…  to a degree. They decided to 
remove the roadblock and didn’t care too much about 
the Masquerade (but didn’t leave any survivors). You 
quit running immigrants after that, but the motorcy-
clists came looking for you again, this time to bring you 
“into the fold.” Through the Embrace, you discovered 
a distinctly horrifying part of your Rroma heritage.
Concept: As a Ravnos, you’ve given up 
smuggling mortals anywhere, instead applying 
your skills to aiding Kindred. You help the blood-
hunted escape their punishment, get Kindred into 
or out of Sabbat-controlled areas and otherwise 
behave in much the same way you did while 
alive. You don’t base your identity on your 
ethnic heritage, but you don’t deny it, either. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’re in control 
at all times, even if things are falling apart 
around you. Two years of running the border 
and looking out for INS patrols have given 
you an iron nerve, and little scares you. Of 
course, you’re not yet fully aware of just how 
frightening older vampires can be, so there are 
still surprises. Until then, a Camarilla sheriff is 
no more worrisome to you than a county sheriff.
You hate to see people ground up under the 
weight of government or bureaucracy, and will act 
to help them, almost like Robin Hood. This means 
you will help a blood-hunted Caitiff in defiance of a 
prince’s wishes and you’ll give an anarch a place to stay 
while she’s avoiding her sire’s attempts to drag her back.
Equipment: An old, beaten-up van with three 
sets of license plates and titles; 10-gauge pump shotgun 
you keep under the driver’s seat; clothing appropriate 
for all social classes and occasions.


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
79
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Immigrant Smuggler
Ravnos
13th
Autocrat
Caregiver
Chimerstry (Ignis Fatuus, Fata Morgana)
Fortitude (Endurance)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic x 3
Commanding
 Magnetic
Rational
Shrewd x 2
Vigilant
Animal Ken
Drive
Law
Dexterous x 2
Tenacious x 2
Tough
Stealth
Streetwise
Survival 
 
Allies x 1
 Contacts x 4
Herd x 4
Influence (Transportation x 3)
Persuasive x 2
 Resources x 3
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Inside Trader
Ravnos
13th
Director
Visionary
Chimerstry (Ignis Fatuus, Fata Morgana)
Fortitude (Endurance)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
 Diplomatic
 Eloquent
Attentive x 2
Clever x 2
Disciplined
Knowledgeable
Academics
Finance
 Law
Agile
 Resilient
Wiry
Performance
 Politics
Streetwise 
 
Contacts x 1
Fame x 1
 Influence (Finance x 1, Transportation x 1)
 Resources x 4, (Status x 1)
Ingratiating x 2
 Vigilant


Clanbook: Ravnos
80
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Director
DEMEANOR: Visionary
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Inside Trader
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Chimerstry
Fortitude
Contacts
Fame
Influence
Resources
Status
Inside Trader
Quote: Yes, Charles? I have some investment advice for you. Sell 
Cost-Less.com stocks now. Yes, I’m sure. Apparently, out of work, 
overweight, singing bald actors can’t save them.
Prelude: Your family never had much, a state of affairs that 
left you very unhappy. While all your friends had new clothes, you 
wore hand-me-downs and castoffs from thrift stores. Through a 
string of lucky breaks and honest work, you managed to earn a 
scholarship to a prestigious university and a degree in business. 
Once out of school, you carved a career for yourself in the 
business sector, quickly working your way to the top (and backstab-
bing more than a few competitors to get there). That’s the way 
business works, after all. Still, it wasn’t enough. 
As an executive in a multinational corporation, you had 
access to sensitive financial information that could be used to 
make or lose billions of dollars. You had no intention of using 
that information in such a way or passing it to anyone who did, 
but someone else had other ideas. 
He came to meet you late one night to discuss 
a business proposition you could not refuse — 
not because you didn’t want to, but because 
refusal could be fatal. The man simply needed 
enough information to make a killing on the 
stock market — nothing important enough for 
the SEC to know about.
You cooperated, wanting to believe the 
promise that it wouldn’t be necessary again, but 
the man kept coming back. Each time, he needed 
a little more. He always seemed to know when you 
held back or tried to lie, so you gave up. 
Within a year, you were a nervous wreck. 
You’d compromised your career for 
a man whose name you didn’t 
even know; every time the 
phone rang, you expected it to be 
someone from the Securities & 
Exchange Commission to tell 
you that “the jig is up.”   Salva-
tion — in a particularly ironic 
manifestation — arrived from 
another corner. Someone else 
came to you in the night. She 
reminded you of the first man 
in a way you couldn’t precisely 
identify, but she made it clear 
she was there to break him. 
She told you his name and 
that he worked for someone 
else, and that they were about 
to sacrifice you now that their 
plan had netted them the 
money they needed.
She offered you a way 
out. All you had to do was ac-
cept her offer of “immortality.”
Concept: You’re still 
a businessman and you 
managed to hold onto your 
position thanks to the Em-
brace — the Ventrue who were 
set to betray you to the SEC 
couldn’t turn another Kindred over. Your sire set them up, 
and that game’s still playing out. You’re less concerned 
about mortal authorities now and work 
with other finance-minded Kindred 
to make as much money as possible. 
Your next challenge, of course, is to 
make headway in Kindred society. 
That will be difficult for a Ravnos, 
even for one of the Phuri Dae.
You’re willing to violate 
confidentiality if it will net you an 
advantage. Sell out the primo-
gen who cut a deal to remove 
a rival? Sure, if the rival has 
more to offer. You’re not very 
trustworthy when it comes 
to dealing with others and 
you never put anyone’s well-
being ahead of your own.
Roleplaying Hints: 
You’re a predatory business-
man; whether you’re in the 
boardroom or Elysium, everyone 
around you is either off-limits or 
prey. You started at the bottom in 
mortal life and you can do it again if you 
have to. Show deference where necessary, go 
through the motions and throw any impedi-
ments to your upward mobility to the sharks.
Equipment: Cellular phone, pager, 
European sports car, expensive suits, 
nice mansion in the really expensive 
part of town.


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
81
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Architect
DEMEANOR: Curmudgeon
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Prince's  Advisor
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Chimerstry
Fortitude
Allies
Generation
Influence
Resources
Status
Prince’s Advisor
Quote: My advice is to watch that primogen. He’s planning 
to move against you and he has a few allies so far. Nip it in the 
bud now and nobody will think twice. Wait too long and… just 
stop it. Now.
Prelude: You’ve always been able to ingratiate yourself 
into power structures and gain the favor of those at the top. 
Of course, you actually make yourself useful once you’re 
there. You did it throughout your school and college years, 
and kept it up once you made it into the workplace. Others 
called you a suck-up or “teacher’s pet” (depending on when 
and where), but you always came out ahead, so the insults 
never really mattered.
Within a few years, you ended up as executive secretary 
to a CEO of a major software corporation. Your ability to 
watch organizations and understand how they work made 
you invaluable to your employer, who came to rely on your 
observations about his subordinates. 
Everything changed the night you decided to work late 
and saw the CEO come in with a man you’d never met before. 
Your employer treated him with obvious deference, despite the 
clear difference in social class be-
tween the two. This man 
dressed like he belonged 
in a pool hall, not your 
workplace. Curious, 
you worked late more 
often, hoping to 
catch further 
glimpses of 
this man.
You saw 
him on several 
more occasions 
and engaged 
him in con-
versation a 
few times. 
You didn’t 
understand 
his arrange-
ment with 
the CEO 
at first, but 
the man 
e v e n t u -
ally came to 
you directly for 
information. He 
asked a few questions 
and you found yourself un-
able to work up the energy 
to resist. You did remem-
ber the conversation, 
however, and used that 
information to track 
what your employer 
was up to.
You found out that the CEO had arranged to monitor 
bank ATM transactions through software the corporation 
had developed for those banks and was giving the informa-
tion to the stranger.
When you next saw the man, you confronted him. You 
were convinced he couldn’t make you back down again, but 
then you felt the will to fight drain away. This time, he didn’t 
talk. He Embraced you, saying you were too intelligent to 
waste as a mortal.
Concept: You observe, note and draw conclusions. You 
realize you can’t always be right, but often you’re close enough 
that it doesn’t make a big difference. Since your Embrace 
and subsequent introduction to the Camarilla prince, you’ve 
worked yourself into his graces much as you did in life. Your 
sire is pleased with your position, but makes it clear that you 
owe him your first loyalty. You feel otherwise, but at the mo-
ment expedience requires you to serve two masters. Someday 
soon, perhaps you can convince the prince to destroy or 
banish your sire. Until then…
Your personal comfort and status are primary in your 
eyes; if you can improve what you have, do so. If your gains 
come at the expense of others, don’t stop to worry about it 
— if they deserved to keep what they have, they wouldn’t 
get in your way.
Roleplaying Hints: Don’t sit back and watch, partici-
pate. It’s easier to understand social dynamics when you’re 
part of them. 
Equipment: Cellular phone, Mace, BMW, penthouse 
apartment and fashionable clothes.


Clanbook: Ravnos
82
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Prince‛s Advisor
Ravnos antitribu
11th
Architect
Curmudgeon
Chimerstry (Ignis Fatuus, Fata Morgana)
 Fortitude (Endurance)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Eloquent x 2
Expressive
 Persuasive x 2
Clever x 2
 Insightful
Knowledgeable
Observant x 2
Academics
Etiquette
Expression
Enduring x 2
Graceful
Investigation
Streetwise
Subterfuge 
 
Allies x 2
 Generation x 2
Influence (Media x 1, 
Transportation x 1)
 Witty x 2
Rational
Resources x 2
Status x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Psychological Warfare Specialist
Ravnos antitribu
12th
Perfectionist
Director
Animalism (Feral Whispers)
Chimerstry (Ignis Fatuus,
 Fata Morgana)
 Fortitude (Endurance, Mettle)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
 Beguiling x 3
Creative x 2
Insightful
 Intuitive x 2
 Observant
Animal Ken
Firearms
Melee
Energetic x 2
Graceful
Stalwart x 2
Stealth
Survival  x 2
 
Steady
Contacts x 1
Generation x 1
Herd x 1
 Wily 


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
83
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Perfectionist
DEMEANOR: Director
CLAN: Ravnos Antitribu
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Psychological 
Warfare Specialist
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Chimerstry
Fortitude
Generation
Herd
Psychological Warfare Specialist
Quote: The plan is to convince the Kindred that their defenses are 
useless and our forces are overwhelming. We begin the siege with terror.
Prelude: In mortal life, you worked for the CIA as a spe-
cialist in psychological warfare. Your job was to identify enemy 
weaknesses in morale and turn them to your advantage, as well 
as to minimize enemy strengths. You fought with words and 
propaganda, not bullets or bombs. You softened up the enemy 
in preparation for physical warfare.
You participated in operations against Manuel Noriega 
and Saddam Hussein, as well as a score of classified operations 
the government still hasn’t released to the American people. 
You spent most of your time involved in the so-called “war 
on drugs,” although you were convinced the government had 
no chance of winning, even before you discovered what you 
were really up against.
You and your subordinates became involved in actions 
against a South American drug cartel that either had 
incredible luck or more military equipment than 
any civilian should. Your part of the opera-
tion went smoothly, but when the soldiers 
followed up for a midnight raid, they  ran 
into something worse than anything you’d 
ever imagined. Over the comm, you heard the 
screams of terror and agony as the men were 
brutally shredded in battle against god-knows-
what. Eerily, you heard no gunfire.
After the screaming finally stopped, 
someone spoke, saying you were next. 
You’d never been on the receiving 
end of such tactics before, but 
you didn’t lose your cool that 
quickly. You got everyone ready 
to leave and went straight to 
the waiting helicopter. You 
told the pilot to pull out and 
he flashed you a grin, show-
ing wickedly sharp fangs.
Concept: Your prima-
ry weapon is terror, which 
is why the Sabbat went 
to such pains to recruit 
you. You’re a member 
of a nomad pack that’s 
usually the first to 
scout Camarilla cities 
about to come under 
siege. You enjoy the 
opportunity to 
plan and occasionally direct shadow wars on American soil, 
against creatures that have undermined society for cen-
turies. The Sabbat may not be much better, but at 
least they’re on your side.
You like to distort perceptions, beliefs 
and attitudes, not through Chimerstry, but 
through the application of psychology and 
deception. Some might call you a liar. 
Others might call you a born diplomat.
Roleplaying Hints: Be observant, 
watch your surroundings and don’t let 
your guard down. The last time you 
didn’t pay attention, the Sabbat set up 
a shovel party for you. The Vaulderie 
makes you loyal to your pack, but 
you don’t really care a lot for the 
Sabbat. You hate the Camarilla 
for what the “Kindred” of that 
organization have done to the 
United States and the world 
throughout history and you 
realize that the Sabbat of-
fers you your only chance 
to strike against them. 
You’re still patriotic and 
you haven’t fully bought 
into the Sabbat’s ideal 
of vampiric superiority 
over mortals.
E q u i p m e n t : 
Wooden stakes, lighter, 
butane, black van, .45 ACP pistol


Clanbook: Ravnos
84
Sabbat Heretic
Quote: The Sabbat was founded in lies and built on deception. It 
is time for us to lead the Sabbat into victory, for the truth shall prevail!
Prelude: Your life before the Embrace was aimless and 
without purpose. You drifted from faith to faith and religion to 
religion in search of something you could believe in, something 
larger than yourself to be a part of. Sadly, no mortal faith could 
fill the void in your soul. You knew there had to be something 
better, something finer to work toward, but you didn’t know what. 
All that changed the night she came to you and told you of 
immortality and Caine and the coming war against those who 
would devour their own childer. Her words about Gehenna and 
the Antediluvians stirred your heart. When she proved she was 
one of the undead — a Cainite — you knew you’d found your faith.
At least, you knew until the Embrace. You were taken in to 
the Sabbat and subjected to the harrowing Creation Rites. You had 
your humanity stripped away in front of your future packmates and 
replaced with a gnawing, driving hunger that nothing could banish. 
The Embrace was not the promised fulfillment; this was damnation! 
You had traded away your life for a false existence as a parasite.
Your sire laughed at you. As she said, “You should see the 
expression on your face!” To her, it was a tremendous joke — 
your faith, your need, your search for something. You snapped, 
lost control, became a raging monster and tried to kill her, but 
the pack stopped you and held you down until you calmed. The 
Vaulderie eased your feelings of betrayal, but 
you had become a hollow woman.
Then the Week of Nightmares hap-
pened. Your pack staked you and 
your sire until it was over, but 
you had visions — you saw 
the Ravnos Antediluvian fall in 
battle with a dragon and a 
tiger, you saw him destroyed 
under the light of four suns. Finally, 
you felt the Antediluvian’s 
ultimate curse and how it 
destroyed the Ravnos. 
When your pack released 
you, you started asking ques-
tions and learned that Ravnos 
all over the Sabbat suffered 
similarly. You also learned that the 
Lasombra and Tzimisce clans had 
never suffered such a curse.
You knew then what 
you’d been looking for.
Concept: You have 
found your mission in 
life. You must bring 
the Ravnos Antitribu 
into dominance in 
the Sabbat, now 
that you know 
that yours is the 
only clan whose 
Antediluvian has 
assuredly been 
destroyed — the La-
sombra and Tzimisce 
are clearly lying and you 
can see it as plain as anything. 
You know that preaching too 
loudly will bring the Inquisi-
tion or the Black Hand, but 
every revolution starts small.
You want to subvert the Sab-
bat’s social order completely. When 
you get the chance to break down 
its structure in some way — con-
verting another vampire to your 
cause, undermining a Lasom-
bra’s authority, etc. — do so.
Roleplaying Hints: Watch 
everyone around you for signs of 
possible sympathy to your cause 
or dissatisfaction with the 
Sabbat as it currently exists. 
Be slow to recruit, but once 
you bring in converts to your 
cause, vehemently express 
your beliefs until they’re 
swayed. You know you’re 
right, and they should see 
the truth in your words 
and the conviction 
that drives them.
E q u i p m e n t : 
Tattered, filthy 
clothing that prob-
ably hasn’t been 
changed in two 
years.
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Pedagogue
DEMEANOR: Martyr
CLAN: Ravnos Antitribu
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Sabat Heretic
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Animalism
Fortitude
Mentor
Sabbat Status
Caine
Sabbat Heretic


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
85
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Sabbat Heretic
Ravnos antitribu
13th
Pedagogue
Martyr
Animalism (Feral Whispers, Beckoning)
Fortitude x 2 (Endurance, Mettle)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Persuasive x 2
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic x 2
Expressive x 2
Ingratiating
Alert x 2
Shrewd
Animal Ken
Brawl
Intimidation
Ferocious
 Nimble
Tireless x 2
Stealth
Streetwise
Survival  
 Path of Caine
 
Vigorous
Influence (Street x 1)
 Mentor x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Thuggee
Ravnos
11th
Conformist
Loner
Chimerstry (Ignis Fatuus)
Fortitude (Endurance, Mettle)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified
 Commanding x 2
 
Clever x 2
Dedicated
 Insightful
 Patient
Athletics
Brawl
 Melee
Lithe x 2
Rugged x 3
Steady
Occult
Stealth
Streetwise 
 Path of Paradox
Shrewd
 
Tough x 2
 Wiry
Generation x 2
Influence (Street x 1)
Resources x 1
Retainers x 2


Clanbook: Ravnos
86
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conformist
DEMEANOR: Loner
CLAN: Ravnos
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Thuggee
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Chimerstry
Fortitude
Generation
Resources
Retainers
Paradox
Thuggee
Quote: I am a Thug. My father was a Thug. My grandfather 
was a Thug. But only I was chosen to drink of Kali’s blood and 
become as Shiva. Do not stand in my way — my duty is sacred.
Prelude: You were raised in the Thuggee cult, a group 
of men who worship the goddess Kali through the act of 
sacred strangulation. You once had a life beyond murder. 
You had a family, a respectable job and sufficient wealth 
for happiness, but none of that filled you with the joy that 
service to Kali could.
You had to make sure your murders did not attract the 
attention of the authorities. Most people think the Thuggee 
were broken nearly two centuries ago. You were taught that 
the Thuggee allowed them to believe this. Now that you 
know the true nature of the highest ranks among the Thug-
gee, you suspect that many more forces are at work than you 
can understand . . . yet.
One night, three Thuggee came to you and 
took you to a ritual, where you were stripped 
and they drank your blood. They returned it 
to you after transforming it into the blood 
of Kali, thereby making you into a true 
Thuggee — a Ravnos.
Ravenous for the taste of blood, you 
could not stop yourself when your wife and 
children were brought before you. The others 
said that to become as Shiva, you must shed 
the trappings of your mortal life. For a time, 
you mourned the act but now you understand 
why it was necessary.
When the Week of Night-
mares came, you barely 
kept control of your-
self as the others leapt 
on one another and 
devoured each other’s 
vitae. Now, you’re the 
last surviving true Thug-
gee and the asuratizayya 
you were Embraced to 
fight have driven you out 
of your homeland. You 
seek a way to fulfill your 
sacred duties in Europe or 
America, or wherever else 
you may find yourself.
Concept: You are the 
divine murderer, given the 
blessings of your goddess 
to take life and destroy the 
undead as you see fit. You 
are not stupid or needlessly 
bloodthirsty, but you under-
stand your svadharma  and 
do not foolishly deny it as the Western Kindred so 
often choose to do. 
You strangle people, per your 
religious duty. You kill Kindred 
who are far too blind to ever 
understand their svadharma so 
that they cannot harm others 
through their existence.
Roleplaying Hints: 
Despite your self-aware-
ness and purpose, you 
are not a machine. You 
can feel and express 
emotion. You regret 
deeply the loss of your 
brethren and your home 
to the enemy, and you’re 
not averse to finding allies 
to reclaim what you lost, 
even if they are Western. 
After all, they can learn, 
just as you did.
Equipment: Weighted 
scarf used for strangling, bagh 
nakh (tiger claws, treat as a 
knife in each hand), assorted 
knives, Western clothing, 
small apartment.


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
87
Sample Coterie: 
The Grave Robbers
The Grave Robbers are a coterie of Ravnos loosely 
linked through common interests before the Week of 
Nightmares. They have formed a more tightly knit group 
for mutual protection in the wake of the Antediluvian’s 
curse. They intend to find out just what happened and 
what it means for the world. They have strong reason 
to believe that the end has already begun, and they 
think the proper knowledge might enable them to put 
a stop to it.
History
Dr. Lawrence Mayhew, archeologist and tomb robber 
from the previous century, was still recovering from the 
effects of the Week when he received the first package. 
It contained the writings of a medieval Kindred histo-
rian and an invitation to receive further information. 
Lawrence, his curiosity piqued, took up the invitation. 
He didn’t find anyone at the listed hotel, but the clerk 
gave him another package, this one with more history 
and some information that would eventually guide him 
to Indian elders’ havens.
When Lawrence fully understood what he’d re-
ceived, he contacted two of his childer, both of whom 
shared similar interests. They brought in two other 
Ravnos who could assist. When Lawrence got the 
other four Ravnos to meet, he presented his plan — to 
go to India, locate the havens of ancient Ravnos and 
decipher everything they could. And if possible, to use 
this information to stop or slow any further disasters.
The other four Ravnos didn’t exactly believe every-
thing Dr. Mayhew had to say — the good doctor had 
trouble with some of it himself — but the opportunity 
to ransack elder havens without much risk of retaliation 
proved tempting. 
The Grave Robbers debated travel arrangements, 
as movement is always risky for Kindred and even more 
so when it takes them halfway around the world. Law-
rence’s mysterious benefactor came through again, this 
time offering passage on a cargo vessel that would take 
them to Calcutta and offload them after dark. 
The newly formed coterie debated the wisdom of 
taking the offered passage. Without any idea as to who 
offered it, nor a clue as to motive, the risk seemed high. 
They eventually agreed to go, because they found the 
opportunity sufficiently tempting and also reasoned that 
whoever wanted to send them could probably kill them 
in America as easily as in Calcutta.
The trip to Calcutta was uneventful. The five spent 
the journey in voluntary torpor to conserve vitae and 
awoke in a Calcutta warehouse a few weeks later. Again, 
they were provided for, this time by Dr. Lawrence’s own 
people who had gone ahead and arranged a haven and 
other necessities for the coterie during their stay on the 
Indian subcontinent.
Events after the coterie’s arrival were not always 
pleasant. The Eastern Kindred who warred against the 
Indian Ravnos were much more common than they 
had been before the Week of Nightmares and had no 
intention of allowing Western Kindred to stay in their 
territory. Fortunately, the coterie found it easy to lose 
themselves in India’s crowds.
The coterie started searching with the hints provided 
and discovered a few havens in Calcutta itself — at 
least, a few that hadn’t already been ransacked by for-
mer ghouls or the Eastern vampires. From that starting 
point, the Grave Robbers found havens in other cities 
and at least one haven that may have belonged to an 
ancient Methuselah. 
Real success came when the coterie believed they 
had located the Antediluvian’s resting place. Unfor-
tunately, when they traveled to the site, they found 
a scene literally from Hell. The place resonated with 
remnants from the vicious battle waged several months 
before, making any length of stay distinctly unpleasant. 
The coterie departed shortly thereafter without having 
made any real investigation.
The youngest member of the coterie, Gwendolyn 
Brand, has suffered nightmares every night since the 
visit. The coterie has ceased explorations and are now 
collating their findings. They’re not sure what to do with 
what they’ve found, or if it’s even half as pertinent as 
they’d hoped, but it certainly makes fascinating reading.
Haven
Lawrence’s ghouls purchased a nice manor in Cal-
cutta, away from the center of the city and most of the 
real problems. Mostly isolated, the haven provides as 
much privacy as the coterie needs, as well as necessary 
proximity to the city for the purposes of feeding.
The house was originally built for a wealthy British 
family during India’s colonial period, but the family sold 
it when India gained independence in the late 1940s. 
The décor is relatively subdued, although Lawrence 
did send along several rare art objects he’d picked up 
over the years. 
In preparation for the coterie’s arrival, the ghouls 
had the most advanced security equipment available 
installed as quickly as possible. The grounds are covered 


Clanbook: Ravnos
88
with security cameras, motion detectors and hidden 
microphones. The windows are heavily barred and the 
doors practically require explosives to force open. 
The coterie rests by day in the basement, which is 
divided into smaller areas. The basement door can be 
barred and locked from the inside. In addition, each 
coterie member has a personal “bedroom” for appear-
ances, as well as extensive work areas for research. 
The house has high-speed Internet access, allow-
ing the coterie to obtain information and news from 
anywhere in the world as well as research materials that 
might otherwise be difficult to get.
The Vampires
Four members of the coterie have known each other 
for decades but have only been working together for a 
few months. They aren’t quite a smoothly oiled machine 
(and may never be), but at least they have a reason 
to work together. The coterie’s presence has recently 
become known with their first release of some of the 
documents they translated to Ravnos in America and 
Europe. At this point, the coterie as a whole is seriously 
considering returning to America. After their visit to 
the site of Zapathasura’s destruction, things haven’t 
been quite as comfortable for them as before.
Lawrence Mayhew, the Leader
Background: Lawrence Mayhew is an Oxford 
educated archeologist who followed his family to India 
in the late 19th century so he could explore India’s 
jungles, temples and other ruins. The subcontinent 
always fascinated him — its culture, religion and so on.
He spent his years in India digging up anything 
he could find and learning whatever he could. It was 
inevitable that one day he would learn too much. 
Dr. Mayhew came to the attention of Jayakumar, a 
Ravnos of the Brahman caste who took an interest in 
Mayhew’s activities. At first, Jayakumar approached 
him as a fellow scholar and discussed India at length 
into the evenings and on to the morning. Mayhew 
often found himself arriving at his family’s home an 
hour or two after sunrise. 
It wasn’t long before Mayhew’s erudition and curi-
osity convinced Jayakumar that he would make a good 
Ravnos of the Brahman jati. Of course, Jayakumar did 
not consult Lawrence in advance. Jayakumar arranged 
events to appear that Lawrence had died in a terrible 
accident. Mayhew himself was brought to Jayakumar 
and subjected to the ritualistic Embrace favored by 
Brahman Ravnos. 
Lawrence adjusted quickly to his new state, although 
he bitterly resented the loss of daylight hours. The fact 
that human frailties no longer troubled him was much 
more of a boon, at first.
Jayakumar wanted Lawrence’s counsel about the 
West. The Brahman saw the time fast approaching when 
the Ravnos would have to move out to prepare for the 
asuratizayya’s final onslaught. He knew that to do so, 
they would have to know what to expect. 
After Jayakumar got everything he needed from 
Mayhew, he sent his childe away. Lawrence, who had 
long grown tired of his sire, did not object. He left for 
America to put as much distance between himself and 
India as possible. He managed to insinuate himself into 
Harvard’s faculty and spent several decades comfortably 
ensconced within its halls. During this stay, Lawrence 
Embraced Johann Matheson and Zachary Carter, his 
two best students (and partners in crime).
Image: Lawrence Mayhew is a fit gentleman, appar-
ently in his early 30s, with dark brown, precisely trimmed 
hair and brown eyes. He likes to wear conservative 
business suits when not digging in tombs.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re soft-spoken and unas-
suming unless you believe you absolutely must get what 
you want or need, at which point you’re very intense, 
driven and likely to run over anyone’s objections. You 
have several decades’ experience dealing with unruly 
students, and you find it easy to extend that experience 
to others. When around Kindred elder to you, however, 
you hold back no matter how stupid they sound. Your 
time with Jayakumar taught you not to toy with those 
more powerful than you.
Sire: Jayakumar
Nature: Architect
Demeanor: Director


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
89
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1879
Apparent Age: 34
Physical: Dexterity 3, Stamina 4, Strength 3
Social: Appearance 3, Charisma 4, Manipulation 3
Mental: Intelligence 4, Perception 5, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Brawl 1, Dodge 2, 
Empathy 1, Expression 4, Intimidation 2, Leadership 3
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 2, Etiquette 3, Firearms 
2, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics 5, Computer 1, Investigation 
4, Linguistics 2, Occult 4, Politics 3
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 4, Chimerstry 3, 
Dominate 2, Fortitude 3
Backgrounds: Contacts 5, Influence 1, Resources 5, 
Retainers 2, Status 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Courage 3, Self-Control 5
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 7
Crime: Not a major weakness, although it shames 
Lawrence no end. He’s discovered that he has quite the 
taste for stealing others’ work and making it his own. 
Plagiarism is an ugly word, and Lawrence prefers not to 
think of what he does as such, but that’s it. He profits 
from others’ work.
Gwendolyn Brand, the Visionary
Background: Gwendolyn is a young, ambitious and 
gifted archeologist. As an Oxford graduate, her career 
might have led to incredible discoveries in the mortal 
world, had she not been caught stealing.
Gwendolyn had been on several digs and was in-
volved with Johann Matheson in selling rare art and 
other items picked up at archeological sites on the 
black market. The business was lucrative enough to 
help pay the bills, and Gwendolyn didn’t see what she 
was doing as wrong. After all, she dug up the things 
in the first place; why shouldn’t she decide not to pass 
everything along?
Unfortunately, one of her colleagues found out 
what was going on and reported her. As a result, she was 
suspended from access to university resources and only 
avoided arrest because she thought quickly enough to 
get away from her usual haunts and call Johann.
Johann, who already intended to Embrace Gwen-
dolyn, did so right then and there. He took her back 
to America, where she met Johann’s sire, Lawrence. 
Lawrence, for his part, was enthralled to find another 
Oxford scholar in his circle, even if she was a woman.
Not long afterward, the coterie departed for India 
to research some leads a benefactor had passed along 
to Lawrence. Gwendolyn’s skills served her in good 
stead during the sojourn on the subcontinent. She 
assembled much of the historical text shortly after 
visiting the site of Zapathasura’s destruction. She has 
since suffered from daily nightmares about the event and 
occasionally awakens babbling in Sanskrit, a language 
she could barely manage to translate before. Gwendolyn 
suspects that whatever remains of Zapathasura’s spirit 
has entered her body.
Image: Gwendolyn is a tall, slender, blonde with 
dark eyes. She’s always smoking a cigarette and dresses 
as casually as possible. She rarely smiles and then usually 
at another’s misfortune.
Roleplaying Hints: Bitter, cynical and resentful 
of your Embrace, you’re torn between wanting to get 
back at Johann for taking your mortality and forgiving 
him because he got you out of England before the po-
lice carted you off. To everyone else, act abrasive until 
you’re convinced they’re not as bad as you initially 
thought. Don’t tell anyone about your suspicions re-
garding Zapathasura — they’ll think you’re crazy. You 
think you’re crazy.
Sire: Johann Matheson
Nature: Rogue
Demeanor: Curmudgeon
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1999
Apparent Age: 28
Physical: Dexterity 2, Stamina 2, Strength 2
Social: Appearance 3, Charisma 2, Manipulation 3
Mental: Intelligence 3, Perception 5, Wits 4


Clanbook: Ravnos
90
Talents: Alertness 2, Empathy 2, Expression 3, Intimi-
dation 3
Skills: Firearms 1, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics (Archeology) 4, Computer 
2, Investigation 3, Linguistics 4, Occult 3, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Chimerstry 1
Backgrounds: Contacts 3, Mentor 1, Resources 3
Virtues: Conscience 2, Courage 3, Self-Control 5
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 8
Crime: Gwendolyn steals. She’s not a kleptomaniac; she 
only takes valuable things. She may sell them or keep 
them afterward, but if she sees something she wants, 
she’ll try to get it.
Marion French, Dacoit
Background: Marion’s father taught her how to 
shoot before she was 12 and she learned how to fight 
and defend herself before she turned 16. When she 
graduated from high school, she joined the Army for 
four years before going to university on the GI Bill.
This isn’t to say Marion was a killing machine 
on two legs — far from it. She was, however, quite 
competent. While attending university, she put her 
fighting skills to use and hired herself as a bodyguard 
to supplement her cash. Her most lucrative job, and 
the one that changed her life the most, was the night 
Johann Matheson hired her.
Johann stressed that anything she saw “never hap-
pened” and took her along to meet some people about 
a shipment. The situation broke down, the people got 
offended and one drew a gun. Marion did her best to 
handle the situation, but it ended in gunfire. What dis-
turbed her was the fact that Johann took two bullets to 
the chest during the fighting and didn’t look as nearly 
dead as he should have been.
After that night, Johann took Marion along when-
ever he needed backup. He convinced her to continue 
despite the bad first experience. While she was good 
at her job, it was inevitable that something would go 
wrong eventually. The bullets would have killed her if 
it hadn’t been for Johann’s vitae.
Image: Marion has black hair, dark eyes and pale 
skin. She wears clothing that gives her maximum range 
of motion and restricts or catches as little as possible. 
Roleplaying Hints: You don’t trust anyone other 
than Johann, and him you trust enough to get you into 
trouble. You stick with him anyway because without you, 
he’d be brightening sunsets by the weekend. You’re curi-
ous about the investigations but don’t have the expertise 
the others do — a degree in Western literature isn’t a 
big help when it comes to excavating ancient Ravnos 
havens. In a fight, you use Chimerstry — sparingly — to 
create distractions.
Sire: Johann Matheson
Nature: Survivor
Demeanor: Gallant
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1987
Apparent Age: Late 20s
Physical: Dexterity 4, Stamina 4, Strength 3
Social: Appearance 2, Charisma 2, Manipulation 2
Mental: Intelligence 2, Perception 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 3, Brawl 4, Dodge 3, Expression 3, 
Intimidation 2, Streetwise 2
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 2, Etiquette 1, Firearms 2, 
Melee 2, Stealth 2
Knowledges: Academics 3, Computer 1, Linguistics 1
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 1, Chimerstry 3
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Resources 3
Virtues: Conscience 2, Courage 5, Self-Control 3
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 7
Crime: Marion has taken up mugging and other unsavory 
habits to supplement her resources. She has the skill 
and ability to take what she wants from others.
Johann Matheson, Faithful Student
Background: Johann attended Harvard in the mid-
60s and dropped out a year before earning his degree to 
protest the Vietnam War and dodge the draft. Lawrence 
Mayhew, while part of Harvard’s faculty, never actually 


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
91
taught classes. He did, however, keep track of promis-
ing students and offer them the opportunity to attend 
private discussions. He was about to offer Johann that 
chance when the young man dropped out. Not deterred 
at the apparent loss of one of archeology’s future brilliant 
minds, Lawrence convinced Johann to at least attend 
his private sessions.
Johann’s grasp of archeology and related topics 
greatly impressed Lawrence, to the point that he decided 
to Embrace Johann years before he actually followed 
through. Unfortunately, Johann had a predilection for 
chemical experimentation of which Dr. Mayhew disap-
proved. He tried to convince Johann to stay away from 
pot and LSD, but Johann laughed it off as something 
“everybody else was doing.”
Lawrence primarily opposed Johann’s drug use 
because he liked to use his “advanced students” as a 
herd, and the presence of drugs in Johann’s system made 
the Ravnos uncomfortable. Nevertheless, Johann’s 
brilliance made up for any shortcomings Lawrence 
perceived. He Embraced Johann when he did mainly 
out of loneliness. He found the prospect of someone 
with whom he could openly discuss his experiences 
extremely tempting.
The Embrace didn’t cure Johann of his fascination 
with drugs. He regularly feeds on mortals who are under 
chemical influence, especially those who have taken 
drugs Johann never tried. In addition, Johann used Law-
rence’s connections to get a foothold in a lucrative black 
market in stolen antiques and archeological treasures. 
Lawrence disapproves, but learned to keep quiet after 
Johann’s efforts dropped several unique and interesting 
items into the archeologist’s possession.
Image: Johann is a young-looking man with sandy 
blond hair and green eyes. He dresses appropriately 
for the situation at hand. When meeting customers, 
he wears business suits and ties. When feeding, he 
usually dresses in counterculture styles. In India, 
he’s taken to khakis and pith helmets, much to the 
coterie’s amusement.
Roleplaying Hints: You act young and cocky and 
give the impression you can do anything and are willing 
to try — even when you’re wrong. You’re not stupid, but 
you are extremely overconfident. The fact that you’ve 
Embraced twice within 30 years of unlife shows your 
lack of restraint.
Sire: Dr. Lawrence Mayhew
Nature: Thrill-Seeker
Demeanor: Rebel
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1971
Apparent Age: Early 20s
Physical: Dexterity 3, Stamina 3, Strength 3
Social: Appearance 2, Charisma 3, Manipulation 2
Mental: Intelligence 4, Perception 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 2, Dodge 2, Expression 3, Leadership 
1, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 2
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 2, Firearms 1
Knowledges: Academics 4, Computer 2, Investigation 
3, Linguistics 3, Occult 4
Disciplines: Animalism 3, Auspex 2, Chimerstry 3
Backgrounds: Contacts 4, Herd 2, Influence 1, Mentor 
2, Resources 4, Retainers 1
Virtues: Conscience 3, Courage 3, Self-Control 2
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 7
Crime: You traffic in stolen artifacts, but your actual 
vice is drugs. You’ll try anything once, usually many 
times more often. You try to get your herd hooked on 
your favorite drugs (currently MDMA and cocaine) and 
then feed on them while they’re high. 
 Anjalika Underwood
Background: Anjalika is the daughter of a Brah-
man woman and an English lord. Born in India but 
raised in England, she grew up speaking both her 
mother’s and father’s tongues, and shifts between 
the two with startling ease. She entered Oxford for 
a formal education and studied literature, focusing 
primarily on Indian writings. After graduation, her 
Indian relatives invited the family to come to India 


Clanbook: Ravnos
92
for an extended stay. Anjalika was excited because she 
wanted to see the places she’d read about and better 
understand her heritage.
The stay wasn’t all that she’d imagined. Her mother’s 
family, being Brahman, was wealthy by Indian terms. 
But the city was crowded with people and animals, 
and Anjalika found the sheer poverty overwhelming. 
She was accustomed to England and Europe, where 
population density was much lower and the standard of 
living much higher. Certainly, she’d seen her share of 
homeless people, but not camped out on every square 
foot of sidewalk.
Anjalika found some things about her stay enjoy-
able. She had access to Calcutta University’s library and 
met a few scholars whose work she’d studied closely. 
Things remained pleasant until the final week, when 
her relatives took her to meet an “old friend of the fam-
ily” named Jayakumar. Jayakumar did not look very old, 
but he spoke with Anjalika well into the night about 
India’s history. At least half the time, Anjalika thought 
he was speaking from experience. Before the night was 
through, Jayakumar Embraced her and forbade her to 
return to her family.
The Ravnos elder told Anjalika that he would tell 
her family she’d died in a terrible accident, and that 
he wished her to remain with him to learn about her 
duties and responsibilities as a Ravnos of the Brahman 
jati. Anjalika tried to leave several times, but on each 
occasion Jayakumar and his retainers prevented her 
escape. He kept Anjalika with him for over a decade 
before he deemed her ready to assume the duties for 
which he’d Embraced her.
Anjalika was prepared to argue with her sire over 
these duties. She had spent years applying herself to work 
that she did not enjoy, existing from night to night in a 
constant state of despair. Jayakumar ordered her to go 
to Boston and find an itinerant childe of his, Lawrence 
Mayhew, and convince him to return to Jayakumar as 
soon as possible.
Jayakumar cautioned Anjalika that this task was 
only the first part of her duty and that failure to return 
could mean disaster. Being the modern woman she was, 
Anjalika did not believe him. Leaving India was like 
dropping a heavy burden and setting it on fire. Once 
back in Europe, she had no intention of returning to 
the subcontinent. She did intend to meet Dr. Mayhew, 
who could probably tell her more about what Jayaku-
mar had refused to explain, especially if he was one of 
Jayakumar’s older childer. 
She stopped in London with a vague thought of 
visiting her parents, but couldn’t bring herself to actu-
ally walk in and greet them — the Embrace and the ten 
years that had followed it were too great a barrier for 
her to surmount. She traveled on to America and met 
with Lawrence Mayhew, to whom she told everything 
about her experiences with Jayakumar. 
Dr. Mayhew invited Anjalika to remain in Boston 
with him and help him place certain events in Indian 
mythology in context with the Ravnos history they 
had both picked up from their sire. After the Week of 
Nightmares and Lawrence’s receipt of packages from 
an anonymous source, Anjalika agreed to travel to 
India with him to learn what happened. She fears that 
Jayakumar still walks and will take her freedom from 
her when he sees her again.
Image: Anjalika is a small, slender woman, with 
long black hair and green-flecked brown eyes. Her skin 
is a dusky brown with ashen undertones if she hasn’t fed 
recently. She dresses conservatively, preferring a busi-
nesslike demeanor to avoid drawing attention to herself.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re quiet and subdued 
around people you don’t know, but that can change in 
a second if conversation shifts to a topic you know well. 
You can spend hours discussing a few passages from the 
Upanishads or the Rg Veda if given the chance. You 
hate to discuss or think too much about your undead 
state — you feed when absolutely necessary, but you 
refer to aspects of Kindred existence with euphemisms. 
The only aspect of being Ravnos you don’t loathe is the 
ability to talk to and relate with animals. 
Sire: Jayakumar
Nature: Pedagogue
Demeanor: Penitent


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
93
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1975
Apparent Age: 24
Physical: Dexterity 3, Stamina 2, Strength 2
Social: Appearance 3, Charisma 3, Manipulation 2
Mental: Intelligence 4, Perception 3, Wits 3
Talents: Brawl 1, Dodge 1, Empathy 2, Expression 4, 
Subterfuge 2
Skills: Animal Ken 4, Drive 1, Etiquette 3 
Knowledges: Academics 4, Computer 1, Investigation 
2, Linguistics 3, Occult 3
Disciplines: Animalism 5, Auspex 1, Chimerstry 2
Backgrounds: Mentor 2, Resources 1, Retainers 1
Virtues: Conscience 4, Courage 3, Self-Control 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 6
Crime: To draw attention from your faults, you point out 
and exaggerate flaws you see in others. If you get rolling, 
you will thoroughly humiliate anyone who irritates or 
offends you. If this other is Kindred, you might push it 
until you trigger frenzy.
Using the Grave Robbers
The Grave Robbers are presented as having a semi-
permanent base in Calcutta and a more permanent base 
in Boston, Massachusetts (specifically, Harvard). As of 
2001, the coterie is likely in America considering their 
next project. The next endeavor could take them any-
where and involve them in nearly any plot, especially 
if it somehow relates to the Final Nights.
In their investigations, they might disturb a powerful 
elder or Methuselah of any clan, or they might acciden-
tally stumble across information of more contemporary 
use. Because they’re Ravnos, any prince may decide 
to deny them entrance into his domain, which could 
cause problems (and lead them to contact characters 
for assistance, especially if something they need is in a 
museum or library within the forbidden domain).
Alternatively, Johann’s black market dealings might 
net him something important to an elder local to the 
characters, which could lead to intrigues as the elder 
tries to get the coveted item. The characters could get 
involved on either side.
The Grave Robbers are not stereotypical Rav-
nos — none are “Gypsies,” and all have goals beyond 
swindling, lying or stealing. They’re all concerned 
about the apocalyptic rumors and events that have oc-
curred in the past few years. Some of them can see the 
red star quite clearly, all survived the traumatic Week 
of Nightmares and they’ve stood at the site where the 
Ravnos Antediluvian fought for its existence and lost. 
They’re not necessarily pivotal to events, but they have 
a good idea of what’s going on — perhaps better than 
many others do.
There’s also the question of their benefactor. The 
entries for Marcia Felicia Licinia and Durga Syn hint 
that one or both are involved somehow, but that’s not 
necessarily the case. Whoever is the coterie’s benefac-
tor might just as easily bring the characters into similar 
investigations to increase opportunities to gather more 
information. Finally, what happens when the benefac-
tor steps in to gather the fruits of her proxies’ labors?
Survivors
Tatiana Stepanova, Alastor
Background: Tatiana Stepanova was the daughter 
of a Russian noblewoman who dallied with an itinerant 
raconteur. After her birth, her father sensed something 
not quite right with her and never really liked the girl. 
As Tatiana grew older, the feeling became mutual. She 
grew up a disobedient child and did whatever she could 
to vex her parents.
When Tatiana discovered that her parents intended 
to marry her off to another family to cement an alliance, 
she was angry. When she met the filthy old man who 
was to become her husband, she became enraged. She 
decided to leave before the arranged marriage could sap 
all freedom from her existence. In the years following 
her departure, she had to learn to survive on her own, 
often disguising herself as a man to avoid unwanted at-
tention and taking up robbery when she had no other 
way to feed herself.


Clanbook: Ravnos
94
One night, while burglarizing a merchant’s house, 
she saw a man bite another on the throat and apparently 
drink.  Frightened, she tried to hide before he noticed her.
The next night, Tatiana saw the man again, but 
only for a moment. In the following weeks, she caught 
glimpses and hints of his presence, but nothing definite. 
Her thieving excursions also became trickier, almost as 
if someone were putting obstacles in her path. Times 
got leaner, although she managed to survive despite the 
increased difficulties.
Within six months, the man presented himself 
to Tatiana. It was a cold, winter night, with snow 
piled high on the ground. The first thing she noticed 
was that his breath didn’t steam. Knowing legends 
of vampires, she turned to run, but found him wait-
ing behind her. She barely got away. The following 
night, the scene repeated itself. For two weeks, this 
bizarre apparition haunted her. Before long, she could 
only huddle in her room and wonder when he would 
simply kill her.
The moment came soon enough. When he took her 
blood, she thought she would die; she did not suspect 
he would make her one of the Ravnos. Her sire, Vasiliy, 
taught her little of the Kindred and primarily used her 
for her talent at burglary. He didn’t fully realize how 
strong her knack for deception was.
Tatiana deeply resented the Embrace — the thirst 
for blood violated her sense of humanity on a primal 
level, and the strong compulsion to conceal her true 
self bothered her in a way she didn’t fully understand. 
She had concealed herself from others for years before 
the Embrace, but now she felt as if she had no choice. 
Vasiliy believed that the Ravnos blood manifested in a 
desire to steal, a compulsion he tried to exploit. 
It took Tatiana three decades to break free of 
Vasiliy’s hold, after which time she used the few tidbits 
of information her sire had dropped to wend her way 
into Kindred society. She made a point of being useful 
to the other Kindred she met, rather than antagonizing 
them. Their power frightened her at first, but she came 
to realize that such power could be hers. Through the 
careful application of prestation and the ability to make 
herself useful as needed, she exchanged her services for 
lore and teaching in Disciplines that didn’t otherwise 
come naturally.
After learning more of the other clans, Tatiana trav-
eled across Europe, meeting and dealing with Kindred 
and building up the information she needed to more 
fully conceal her true self. Eventually, she settled on a 
Brujah identity she had manufactured from experiences 
in Russia and France. Tatiana participated with several 
other Brujah during the French Revolution, but chose 
shortly afterward to move on to the relatively young 
United States of America.
Tatiana moved frequently, establishing identities as 
a Gangrel and a Malkavian as well as her original Brujah 
alter ego. She quickly learned to avoid the Sabbat and 
spent her time within Camarilla-aligned domains. In 
her routine efforts to make herself useful, she fell in with 
the Ventrue archon Lucinde and worked with her on 
several occasions.
In the 20th century, Tatiana has also fallen in with 
anarchs and associated with Lilith Storm, a prominent 
Brujah anarch in Seattle, when Petrodon was destroyed. 
Tatiana had heard of a plot against one of the Justicars 
but had not yet discovered enough evidence by the time 
Petrodon was ash. She contacted Lucinde to warn her 
about rumblings among the anarchs, only to receive an 
invitation to work for the new Ventrue Justicar as one 
of her archons. Her first official mission was to assist 
Lucinde in the capture of Genina, a Samedi who was 
under a global bloodhunt from the Camarilla.
Tatiana knows of Danya, the Ravnos art thief on the 
“Camarilla’s Most Wanted” Red List, another Kindred 
under global blood hunt. She sees Danya as a rival and 
strongly desires Danya’s destruction.
When the Week of Nightmares struck, Tatiana 
barely managed to fight off the frenzy. She held on to 
her self-control mainly because few Ravnos were nearby. 
The violent images and feelings drove her into hiding 
until the event ended, further insulating her from any 
potential consequences. She doesn’t know what hap-
pened to the rest of the clan and is very disturbed about 
what she perceives as an attack aimed at her. 
Image: Tatiana Stepanova is a mildly attractive 
black-haired woman. As one of the Kindred, she has 
pale skin, but she offsets the effect with cosmetics and 
Obfuscate. She cultivates a formidable image and pres-
ents herself as much more dangerous than she truly is. 
Her steady gaze has unnerved more than one primogen 
or prince who sought to dissuade her attention from 
their domains.
As an alastor, Tatiana bears the identifying tattoo 
on the palm of her left hand, and wears gloves or uses 
Disciplines to conceal it. 
Roleplaying Hints: Allow none to see your true self; 
keep it hidden under layers of deception. Manufacture 
identities as needed to deal with any level of mortal 
or Kindred society to get what you want. If you must 
masquerade as an anarch one night and a Camarilla 
elder the next, do so. Everyone you meet is a potential 
tool — do not hesitate to recruit those who can help 


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
95
you get what you want, or to repay them what they are 
owed. Project a sense that you are honorable to neonates 
(who are still young enough to believe such foolishness) 
so that you can exploit it at your leisure.
All your self-assuredness conceals massive paranoia 
that someone will learn something about you. Anyone 
coming close to the truth must be neutralized or de-
stroyed if necessary. 
Sire: Vasiliy Vasilevich
Nature: Survivor
Demeanor: Judge
Generation: 8th
Embrace: 1764
Apparent Age: 22
Physical: Dexterity 3, Stamina 3, Strength 3
Social: Appearance 2, Charisma 5, Manipulation 5
Mental: Intelligence 5, Perception 4, Wits 5
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 3, 
Empathy 3, Intimidation 4, Leadership 4, Subterfuge 5
Skills: Animal Ken 3, Drive 1, Etiquette 3, Melee 3, 
Stealth 3, Survival 3 
Knowledges: Academics 2, Investigation 5, Law (Ca-
marilla) 3, Linguistics 2, Occult (Vampire Clans) 4, 
Politics 3
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Celerity 2, Chimerstry 5, 
Fortitude 2, Obfuscate 3, Potence 2, Presence 4
Backgrounds: Allies 4, Contacts 5, Resources 4, Re-
tainers 2, Status 4
Virtues: Conscience 2, Courage 3, Self-Control 5
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 8
Crime: Infiltration. Tatiana uses her skills at disguise 
and deception to assume other identities and claim 
membership in other clans. She won’t try to impersonate 
a Tremere or a Ventrue, but no other clan is off-limits. 
She especially delights in manipulating those who 
perceive the concept of “clan” as more binding and 
fraternal than is the norm. This compulsion stems from 
her need to conceal her true identity from others, to 
the extent that she will do her best to dispose of any 
who learn too much about her.
Sanjay Chakrabarti, 
Renegade Kshatriyas
Background: Sanjay Chakrabarti was born in New 
Delhi to a family living on five by five square feet of 
sidewalk. Sanjay resented his position in society as a 
member of the lowest caste and blamed his parents for 
bringing him into the world. Instead of adjusting to his 
role, he fell in with several others also less than thrilled 
with their assigned lots in life, and began a lucrative 
career mugging tourists.
One night, Sanjay and his companions chose a target 
who looked like a wealthy European, not realizing that 
the man’s pale complexion stemmed from something 
other than his racial background. When they confronted 
the man with their knives and threats, he laughed at 
them. The largest boy, Ekaja, moved to attack the man 
and fell screaming after his second step. None of the 
other boys could see what had hurt Ekaja so badly, but 
he sounded as if he’d been ripped open. A second young 
thug moved and he, too, fell screaming. The rest ran, 
except for Sanjay. Always the opportunist, Sanjay said, 
“Teach me your magic.”
So the man taught Sanjay his magic. He was a 
Ravnos of the Kshatriyas (“warrior”) caste, Embraced 
over a century before to fight against the asuratizayya. 
He coached Sanjay in presenting the proper attitude 
and behavior to fit in as one of the Kshatriyas. Five 
years passed before Sanjay met another Ravnos, and 
another 10 before Vivek, his sire, felt he was truly 
ready to battle the Eastern Kindred. Sanjay enjoyed 
his new existence to a point — he had all the money, 
fine clothes and women he could ever want — but as 
one of the undead, he could no longer truly enjoy these 
benefits. He learned the gifts common to the Ravnos 
and he learned to fight, but he also indulged other, less 
pleasant, pursuits. 
Sanjay loathed the fact that his condition made it 
impossible to enjoy mortal activities. He recruited his 
mortal friends to help him as necessary and made Ekaja 
his ghoul. Ekaja also served as his proxy for worldly 
pleasures. The ghoul brought women to bring to Sanjay’s 


Clanbook: Ravnos
96
haven and thoroughly degraded them under Sanjay’s 
appreciative gaze. Once a woman had suffered sufficient 
indignities that Sanjay no longer enjoyed the sport, he 
would drain her to death and have Ekaja dispose of the 
remains. Vivek knew of Sanjay’s excesses and tried to 
limit them, to teach Sanjay to resist such temptations, 
but Sanjay did not listen.
When rumors swept through India that the asura-
tizayya had begun their long-rumored and oft-prophesied 
invasion the West, starting with the state of California 
in the United States of America, Vivek was among those 
who went to investigate the matter. He took Sanjay 
with him to keep an eye on him and tutor him further 
in the Path of Paradox.
Upon arrival in Los Angeles, Vivek and Sanjay 
made contact with local Kindred and began the 
process of locating the asuratizayya for destruction. 
Before they and the other Ravnos managed to accom-
plish much, the Week of Nightmares struck. Vivek 
fought the frenzy and attempted to inflict his Beast 
on a ghoul to maintain control. Sanjay did not try 
to resist. Instead, he fell upon his distracted sire and 
drank his soul. In this horrific act, Sanjay discovered a 
joy that transcended all he had regretted, and wished 
to experience it again. 
Since the Week of Nightmares, Sanjay has decided 
he’d rather indulge his urges than fight a war he doesn’t 
care about. Los Angeles is the perfect city for him — 
America’s decadence is distilled and reproduced for mass 
consumption in the City of Angels, and he’s more than 
happy to partake. He regrets diablerizing Vivek, but he 
also desperately wants to experience that sensation again.
As for the mortal world, Sanjay has moved on to 
drug dealing and prostitution. Along with Ekaja, Sanjay 
has slowly solidified his influence with a few mortal 
gangs. He doesn’t realize yet that he’s stepping on other 
Kindred’s territory and that only the chaos sown by the 
Eastern Kindred’s invasion has kept him safe so far. That 
chaos is passing quickly. 
Image: Sanjay is a young Indian male, with short, 
black hair and dark skin. He wears the most stylish 
American clothes he can afford. He tries to present a 
quiet and respectful front when dealing with American 
Kindred, but his contempt for the Western vampires 
occasionally spills forth. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’re the man! You’ll rule 
the streets within two years if you play your cards right, 
but you don’t want to bring the native Kindred’s anger 
down on your head, so you won’t move too fast. Play 
their games when you have to — respect the princes, 
primogens and archons when you must, but mark time 
until you can devour them as you devoured your sire.
Sire: Vivek Lalji
Nature: Monster
Demeanor: Deviant
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1958
Apparent Age: 17
Physical: Dexterity 3, Stamina 3, Strength 3
Social: Appearance 3, Charisma 2, Manipulation 3
Mental: Intelligence 3, Perception 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 2, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Leadership 1, 
Streetwise 4, Subterfuge 2
Skills:  Animal Ken 2, Drive 3, Etiquette 1, Firearms 
2, Melee 2
Knowledges: Investigation 1, Linguistics 1, Politics 2
Disciplines: Animalism 1, Chimerstry 3, Fortitude 2
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Fame 1, Herd 3, Influence 
1, Resources 3, Retainers 1, Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 1, Courage 2, Self-Control 2
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 5
Crime: Initially, Sanjay’s preferred crime was to use 
women and kill them. Since discovering diablerie, he’s 
lost interest in killing mortals, but he still does it on 
occasion to see if he can invoke the same rapture he 
experienced before. He doesn’t do it often, in the wake 
of one murder that nearly brought a police investigation 
to Ekaja’s doorstep (and thus to him).
Brian Thompson
Background: Brian grew up listening to the blues. 
He spent half his life wishing he could play, and the 
other half actually learning to. As a teenager, he took 
whatever jobs he could to pay for a Gibson Les Paul 
guitar and Marshall amplifier stack, as well as for lessons.
Despite all that, something was missing from his 
music. Brian couldn’t put his finger on it — it was 
something he could hear when he listened to Stevie 
Ray Vaughn, but nothing that existed in his own music. 
He may simply have been his harshest critic, or he may 
genuinely have lacked the ability to truly play the blues.
Brian tried to join a few bands, but he never got 
very far, and each try led to greater disappointment. 
The night after his final rejection, after deciding to 
give up the music and try to make a “serious” living, 
he got one final chance. He received an invitation to 
meet a man at a blues club in New Orleans called The 
Crossroads. The invitation’s wording implied that the 


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
97
man felt Brian had potential and could help where 
Brian had failed.
Brian went to The Crossroads. After all, what was 
one more disappointment piled atop so many others? 
No one else was at the club when he arrived, only the 
man who’d sent the invitation. The man offered Brian 
a drink and asked him to play a few songs. The drink 
hit Brian like a sledgehammer and the music flowed 
freely as it never had before. Brian felt as if the strange 
man had reached inside him and pulled out the deepest 
parts of his soul.
“I can help you play the blues, but you have to 
do something for me in return,” the man said. Brian 
accepted the offer and for ten years, he played as few 
others ever had. The fact that the man — named Legba 
— needed him to do things every so often didn’t bother 
Brian too much. At first he did little things, like quick 
delivery jobs. As the years passed, the tasks became 
more difficult and dangerous. Within five years, Legba 
had Brian disposing of a corpse. The young musician 
found he could not refuse Legba’s requests, no matter 
how hard he tried. 
Brian’s musical career didn’t exactly skyrocket, but 
he was no slouch, either. He had a recording contract 
with BMI and released six albums within ten years of 
making his deal with Legba. He’d just received his first 
offer for a major United States tour when Legba came 
to him and said it was time to pay in full for the music. 
Legba then Embraced Brian.
Needing to come to terms with the Embrace and the 
hungers it awakened, Brian turned down the tour and 
retreated from the public. He’s rumored to be working 
on his next CD, but no one knows for sure.
A year ago, Brian and Legba fought as Zapathasura’s 
curse drove both to frenzy. Brian recovered several nights 
later and has seen no sign of Legba since. He does not 
know if Legba still exists or if he was destroyed, but he 
would like to know the truth.
Image: Brian is a youngish white male, often 
dressed in denim and leather. He occasionally emulates 
the fashion preferences of his blues idols, but hasn’t 
yet established his own image. His hair is shaggy and 
unkempt, and he was cultivating a beard when Legba 
Embraced him.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re standoffish; you don’t 
want to let anyone near you as long as you want human 
blood. You are trying to work on your next album, but 
the creativity that existed before Legba Embraced you 
seems to have drained away. You have to fight every 
inch to write a song, which drives you to utter distrac-
tion. When you’re around others, you try to hide your 
frustration and put on a good act.
Sire: Papa Legba
Nature: Bon Vivant
Demeanor: Gallant
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1997
Apparent Age: 
Physical: Dexterity 4, Stamina 3, Strength 2
Social: Appearance 3, Charisma 3, Manipulation 2
Mental: Intelligence 2, Perception 2, Wits 3
Talents: Athletics 1, Brawl 2, Dodge 1, Empathy 2, 
Streetwise 2
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 2, Performance (Blues) 
4, Survival 1
Knowledges: Academics 1, Computer 2
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Chimerstry 1, Fortitude 2
Backgrounds: Contacts 3, Fame 3, Herd 3, Resources 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Courage 3, Self-Control 2
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 6
Crime: Betraying trust. Brian hasn’t had a chance to do 
this yet, but as soon as he gets close to someone, he’ll 
be driven to turn on her at the worst possible moment. 
Since he needs to build a relationship before he can 
destroy it, this vice is unlikely to come up often.
Khalil Ravana
 Khalil Ravana recently emigrated from India to 
the United States and expanded his horizons from 
stealing wallets to stealing souls. He’s sold information 


Clanbook: Ravnos
98
to the Sabbat, played hostage negotiator for a Setite 
neonate and became entangled in a Ravnos elder’s 
schemes for a time.
Khalil had the luck to survive the Week of Night-
mares, despite his proximity to the site of Zapathasura’s 
destruction. He encountered the Setite elder, Hesha 
Ruhadze, and after a shaky introduction negotiated a 
deal with the Setite to smuggle him into America. In 
exchange for passage to the West, Khalil gave Hesha 
information about the Eye of Hazimel, an artifact the 
Setite desired.
Once in the United States, Khalil hitchhiked to 
New York City. Before and during the trip, he expe-
rienced and resisted telepathic compulsions from an 
unknown elder. Once in New York, he was guided to a 
young Setite — Hesha’s former ghoul. Khalil held the 
neonate hostage to bait the Setite elder. During this 
time, the Ravnos met the Gangrel Ramona, who had 
experience with the Eye of Hazimel and had seen the 
curse it carried — hideous wounds and stigmata that 
could not be healed, even with the powers of Caine’s 
blood. Khalil learned how to heal the wounds from the 
elder who had led him to New York.
Khalil traded this knowledge to Sabbat and Ca-
marilla Kindred in New York City, as members of both 
sects had suffered Eye-inflicted injuries. In exchange 
for teaching them how to heal the wounds, the Ravnos 
asked for information on Hesha’s location. Unfortu-
nately, this information didn’t help much. Khalil traded 
the location of the Eye of Hazimel to the Sabbat in 
exchange for potent blood. In exchange, he received 
information about the recently Embraced childe of 
the Prince of New York City.
Unfortunately for Khalil, dealing with the Sabbat 
is never safe. He learned that simply being of Ravnos 
lineage was more dangerous than ever — one of the 
Kindred with whom Khalil had dealt, a Ventrue trai-
tor, discovered the Ravnos clan’s current situation and 
decided it would be simple to dispose of Khalil Ravana. 
The Ventrue miscalculated and suffered the fate he’d 
intended for Khalil when the Ravnos consumed the 
Ventrue’s heart’s blood.
After this act, Khalil became addicted to diablerie, 
and his previous patience with his Setite hostage wore 
thin. However, he soon found his alliance with Ra-
mona coming back to haunt him. Ramona had built 
up sympathy for his hostage and freed her. Worse, she 
had then found Hesha and led him straight to Khalil. 
The hapless Ravnos barely escaped the trap set for him. 
Now, Khalil has perhaps more enemies than anyone 
else in New York because he betrayed the Camarilla and 
the Sabbat. Worse, his addiction to diablerie led him 
to diablerize one of his own clan, a fool named Ghose, 
and turn his mortal family into ghouls. Subsequently, 
Khalil left New York for Chicago. He remains controlled 
by his addiction, haunted by the manipulations of an 
elder and with no real allies.
Image: Khalil, despite his greatest efforts to the 
contrary, can never really escape his urchin’s origin. Even 
in a three-thousand-dollar suit, Khalil looks like little 
more than an Untouchable in a three-thousand-dollar 
suit. His hair is just shorter than his shoulders and his 
features are fine, almost to the point of being feline. 
Khalil was Embraced with two days growth of facial 
hair, which he shaves when he needs to be presentable 
but otherwise ignores.
Roleplaying Hints: Survive. You know you can, 
you know you will; it’s just a simple question of doing 
whatever it takes. One night, you’ll manage to turn 
things back around, but until then you’re going to 
need to make a few sacrifices, and your humanitas may 
be among them.
Sire: Unknown
Nature: Bravo
Demeanor: Autocrat
Generation: 9th (presumed Embraced at 11th Genera-
tion)
Embrace: 1878
Apparent Age: late 20s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 2, Wits 4


Chapter Three: Orphans in Gehenna’s Wake
99
Talents: Alertness 3, Brawl 1, Dodge 3, Empathy 2, 
Intimidation 2, Streetwise 5, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 1, Performance 4, Security 
3, Stealth 4, Survival 5
Knowledges: Investigation 3, Law 2, Linguistics 2, 
Occult 2
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 1, Chimerstry 4, 
Dominate 1, Fortitude 4, Obfuscate 1
Backgrounds: Contacts 4, Fame 1, Resources 3
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 3, Courage 2
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 9
Durga Syn
Durga Syn’s long history is intertwined with the 
Nosferatu Methuselah, Baba Yaga. In her mortal life, 
Durga Syn was a priestess of a pre-Christian religion 
that venerated nature. Her understanding of the myster-
ies and mastery of the rites gave her a reputation that 
spread far beyond her home. Supernatural and mortal 
beings alike came to her for counsel and assistance. It 
was only a matter of time before the hag, Baba Yaga, 
learned of the young priestess’ reputation.
Baba Yaga came to Durga Syn and offered her more 
power than she could ever have as a mortal, and an 
eternity in which to perfect it as well as to study and 
understand nature. Durga Syn turned down the offer. 
The hag then cursed Durga Syn and her homeland for 
all time. The curse turned the young woman into an 
ancient, brittle caricature of her former self.
Crusaders swept through Durga Syn’s homeland 
shortly thereafter and nearly killed her. As she lay 
dying, Baba Yaga came to again offer the Embrace, 
but found unexpected competition. Ravnos who had 
come to make the same offer distracted Baba Yaga 
with illusions as one of them Embraced the priestess 
against her will.
Repelled by what she had become, Durga Syn 
distracted herself by warring on Baba Yaga and her 
servants at every opportunity, if only to pretend she 
had not fully lost her soul. After Baba Yaga fell into 
torpor, Durga Syn spent much of her time trying to 
locate the hag’s haven and also countering the Russian 
Nosferatu’s schemes. 
For a time, Durga Syn advised the fiend Vlad 
the Impaler and assisted him in his ongoing quest for 
Golconda. She is rumored to have foretold many of 
the disasters that have befallen the Kindred, from the 
anarch revolts to the fall of the Giovanni’s predecessors. 
She also developed rituals that would enable her to 
temporarily banish Baba Yaga’s curse, but no final cure.
In the final decade of the 20th century, Durga Syn 
seemingly vanished. She was in Russia when a super-
natural force apparently imprisoned all Kindred in 
that nation. In truth, she was actively warring against 
the newly arisen Baba Yaga. The Week of Nightmares 
interrupted her efforts; her childer were forced to stake 
her during that terrible time so that Zapathasura’s curse 
would not bring her (or them) terrible harm. Afterward, 
just when she had her forces ready to strike directly 
against Baba Yaga, an unknown Kindred destroyed the 
hag with little effort.
In the wake of the Week of Nightmares and Baba 
Yaga’s destruction, the curse has weakened considerably, 
to the point that Durga Syn has banished it for nights 
at a time with little effort. She expects it to dissipate 
within a year or two, but still maintains a frail appear-
ance to disguise her true strength.
Durga Syn strongly suspects the cause of the Week 
of Nightmares, but fervently hopes she’s wrong. She 
knows that if she is correct, Gehenna has already begun. 
She actively searches for other signs of its arrival. Baba 
Yaga’s destruction only strengthened her conviction — 
she believes that the Nosferatu Antediluvian may be 
awake and walking the land.
Concerned that direct action will attract the at-
tention of powers she’s not prepared to face, Durga 
Syn prefers to guide others to find what she needs. She 
recently gave a Ravnos coterie enough information 
to find elder havens in India and hopefully shed more 
light on the Week. The coterie members believe they’re 
dealing with a ghoul.
Mata Hari
The woman called Mata Hari is best known for the 
accusation of espionage leveled against her, for which 
she was executed in front of a firing squad. What is 
not known is that in her younger years, while studying 
Eastern dance styles, she came to the attention of an 
Indian Ravnos. Mata Hari’s exotic dance centered on 
Shiva, one of the gods this Ravnos had worshipped 
during his mortal life, before the Embrace stole his faith 
along with his mortality.
Mata Hari’s dance reminded him of his days in the 
sun, and so he followed her career. To his disappoint-
ment, it never got far; she ended up dancing nude simply 
to make ends meet. He lost interest shortly thereafter, 
believing she had tainted the purity of her chosen art 
for the sake of illusory gain.
A decade and a half later, he saw her face again. 
Mata Hari had been accused of committing acts of 
espionage for the Germans and was to face the firing 
squad. The Ravnos visited her in prison and offered 


Clanbook: Ravnos
100
her the strength of his blood to support her through 
the ordeal, with gift of immortality to come soon after. 
Mata Hari accepted his proposal, and he lent her his 
durability for the execution. Though she appeared dead, 
she remained very much alive.
The Ravnos’ ghouls procured Mata Hari’s body and 
returned her to their master, who promptly Embraced 
her. In exchange, she danced for him whenever the 
mood struck him. She had also developed considerable 
cunning and caution thanks to her experience during 
the First World War and her close brush with true death. 
She has no desire to repeat the experience.
Eventually, the two traveled to America. Those 
who are aware of Mata Hari’s Embrace believe that she 
and her sire assumed new identities once they arrived 
in the United States. Rumors have also placed her as 
working for archons, princes and other Camarilla and 
independent luminaries, applying her skill at espionage 
to good effect.
Marcia Licinia
Marcia Felicia Licinia was among a small lineage 
of Ravnos who tried to exist according to the virtues of 
chivalry in medieval France. Marcia vanished during the 
Inquisition, her sire several decades before that; the rest 
of the lineage reportedly fell to the Beast or turned to 
other, less strict moral guidelines throughout the swiftly 
changing times. Before her disappearance, Marcia spent 
a lot of time researching her Eastern cousins from India 
and trying to discern their purpose in coming to Europe.
After her third expedition, she returned to Paris 
in the mid-15th century mere nights before her elabo-
rate haven was burned to the ground. From that point 
forward, most Kindred assumed that Marcia had met 
Final Death. Her studies on the Path of Paradox and its 
permutations, along with extensive discussions of the 
clan’s history, were also believed destroyed. Theories as 
to who or what caused the fire range from anarchs to the 
strict Rroma Ravnos who believed none outside their 
families should receive the Embrace to the Inquisition 
and its witch-hunters, but no one ever discovered the 
truth, or cared much after a time.
Shortly after the Week of Nightmares, Marcia’s 
writings turned up in the hands of a few Ravnos who 
were trying to unearth the Nightmares’ cause. While 
no direct evidence exists pointing directly to Marcia as 
the source, the writings have been updated with a few 
modern observations.
It seems unlikely that an elder of Marcia’s power 
could have survived the Week of Nightmares. On the 
other hand, rumors abound of powerful elders and even 
Methuselahs who lay in torpor before the Week, were 
awakened by the battle and ensuing curse, and who 
may have survived simply because they were too weak 
to succumb to frenzy. If the rumors are true, a handful 
of potent Ravnos elders may indeed have survived. If 
any did, they could become dangerous wild cards in 
the Final Nights.
Spirit Creek
The kumpaniya known as Spirit Creek may not be a 
collection of Ravnos at all, but rather a coterie of other 
Kindred led by one of the few remaining Deceivers. 
The group’s leader, Doug Schoeneck, is the only known 
Ravnos is the coterie, which has three other members.
Under the guise of a guitar band, Spirit Creek 
plays a dangerous game, traveling between the tenuous 
Camarilla domains of Milwaukee and Chicago and the 
Sabbat-infested city of Detroit. To outside observers, the 
group leads a sort of “Radio Free Domain” unlifestyle, 
taking their underground music wherever they can play 
for the evening. Others suspect the group’s goal is not 
so straightforward, however. Rumors run rampant, link-
ing them to nomadic Sabbat packs, a band of Gangrel 
archons last seen active outside of Chicago, or even as 
the eyes for an unknown Inconnu Monitor. Perhaps 
more likely, the group has made no secret that they 
communicate with other Ravnos, using their tours as 
opportunities to find out what Doug’s fellow Ravnos 
know about recent events in the clan’s history.
If anything is certain about Spirit Creek, it’s that 
the group has access to an enormous network of con-
tacts, with members ranging from black marketeers 
to the owners of safe havens. Spirit Creek traffics in 
information primarily, and can almost certainly offer 
something in return to anyone who knows something 
that they do not.


™
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated
Addicted to vice


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-58846-209-9
WW2364  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
TM
CLANBOOk:  
