Contents
1
™
By Brian Campbell
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
2
Credits
Author: Brian Campbell
Developer: Robert Hatch
Editor: John Chambers
Art Direction: Richard Thomas
Artists: John Cobb, Guy Davis, Leif Jones, Christopher Shy, 
Drew Tucker
Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Cover Design: Aileen E. Miles
Layout, Typesetting and Interior Page Design: Aileen E. Miles
© 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher 
is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced 
for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, 
Vampire the Dark Ages, World of Darkness, Aberrant and 
Mage the Ascension are registered trademarks of White Wolf 
Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Trinity, Werewolf the 
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dream-
ing, Werewolf the Wild West and Clanbook Nosferatu are 
trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted 
by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product 
in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copy-
right concerned.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf; and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Contents
Food Chain	
4
Chapter One: Legends and History	
12
Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu	
40
Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters	
80
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
4


Food Chain
5
Food Chain
The music all sounds the same to me now. Sitting in the same crowded 
club on another pointless Saturday night, I no longer care whether it’s 
Old Wave, New Wave, Goth, Industrial or some shitty techno dance mix 
— I can’t even tell anymore. The same pounding rhythms shake the black 
frosted windows of the nightclub, the same taut young bodies writhe 
to the thunderous backbeat, and once again, I nurse my watery beer, 
regarding the sweaty mass of flesh before me as I have on too many pre-
vious nights to count.
Black’s still in fashion — it always is — so I sit in the corner, a 
black leather miniskirt constricting uncomfortably around my thighs. When 
I was as young as the other women — girls — on the floor tonight, my legs 
were my biggest asset. Now I’ve just got a... well, you know. A big ass 
warming a barstool. 
I rock my feet back and forth on a pair of “knock-me-down-and-fuck-me” 
heels, taking another sip of beer. When I was younger, nights like this 
used to seem adventurous. Now, of course, I’m pushing 30, the joke’s got-
ten old, and so have I. My morning shift, processing checks at the bank on 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
6
for-God’s-sake-Sunday-motherfucking-morning, is just six hours away. I can 
feel a clock ticking away like a timebomb inside me. Time’s running out, 
baby. Time’s running out.
Smile as another guy goes past... hope he turns around and comes 
back... maybe hope he doesn’t. Where did I go wrong? Don’t get me wrong, 
finding company for a few hours isn’t the problem. Once you lower your 
standards enough, anything’s possible. But those thousands of Saturday 
nights I thought I had ahead of me when I was 19 have run out. No mat-
ter what the venue is for clubbing, I’m an outcast, by age and appearance 
— hunting for what I can get at the bottom of the pecking order, near the 
bottom of the food chain. I can’t compete with the impossibly thin little 
Barbies all around me.
Barbie and her friends are wearing a lot of black tonight — sporting 
the archaic retro style I abandoned when I was 14. Maybe it’s cool again 
now and I don’t even know — Oh, God. Am I that old? Does it really show? 
Not behind the façade I wear. My makeup is immaculately done — a careful 
blend of pale white and Death’s own black lipstick. My hair is teased just 
like a Goth queen the kids here tonight don’t even remember. I’ve even got 
my lucky panties on, although their luck ran out a long, long time ago. 
Just as I start to sweat from the heat and desperate energy of the club, I 
realize that it’s that time of the week where I go out on the floor and use 
the only marketable skill I’ve got left. I dance.
Once the motion starts, my doubts fade away. I don’t care how preten-
tious it is to go through the same poses every week for the thousandth 
time in yet another dreary nightclub. I forget about the swirling 
clouds of collegiate angst that surround me. The music piercing my 
skull sounds faintly industrial, but I don’t even stop to think what it 
is. I only hope that if someone’s going to come and take me away from 
all this, he’d better damn well do it soon. If my dance doesn’t work, I 
know how the evening will end: I’ll stagger home to my housecats, read 
the spicy bits of another erotica novel and dream of killing myself. 
Someone please end this.
From the corner of my eye, I can see that my movements have actually 
summoned someone. Jet-black hair, black slacks, T-shirt from some band I 
can’t quite make out and boots to die for. He’s coming across the floor, 
right for me, flouncing around like he actually fits in, despite the tacky, 
tiny silver ankh he’s got dangling around his neck. How long ago did that 
go out of style? And he’s wearing sunglasses indoors — still. Loser. 
Just like me. 
He passes a scrawny little poseur kid, then suddenly turns his back to 
me to give the wannabe a shock. The kid jumps, dropping his drink as he 
scrambles for the door. Yeah, I know that move. He thinks he’s Demon Lov-
er, and I think he’s playing the whole Goth thing up way too much. Like I 
should talk. But, loser or not, he is kind of cute....


Food Chain
7
A few other Barbies try to capture his attention, but he acts like he 
knows I’m watching him. Going for the pity fuck? I think. Stop that. He’s 
coming this way. My dance of desperation continues, even though I don’t 
know what song’s playing, nor do I care. Oh. God, it must be retro night 
— they’re playing “Tin Omen” again. He poses before me and sets out his 
opening line. I can’t even hear it; I just laugh and keep dancing. He’s 
cute enough to pass the time until I have to click-clack home. Which home? 
I don’t care anymore because I’m intoxicated, both from the overpriced 
drinks and Demon Lover standing before me. Standing beside me. Holding me. 
I’m way too easy, and I don’t care. This is just wrong, I think, and the 
whole time, I want it to happen.
A while later, we shuffle off the dance floor. Two drinks and a whirlwind 
of bad retro music later, he’s taking me outside, and I’m playing along. 
Anything to get away from here. The passions I felt with such intensity 
10 years ago start to resurface again, but they no longer surprise me. 
I’ve been through this dance enough times, going through the motions once 
again, that I’m willing to let him lead me back to his car. Ooh — a sports 
car. Color me surprised. 
I trip and giggle with calculated timing as I lower myself into the 
bucket seats, wobbling on my heels. The seat belt clicks into place, and I 
adjust my black mini for maximum effect. He’s sitting in the driver’s seat 
in moments, and I’m letting everything happen way too fast. No need for a 
seatbelt... he’s already got me strapped down and... a rush of adrenaline 
washes over me as he leans over to kiss my neck, pinning me down against 
the leather seats. Pinning me down way too hard.
It’s a dream. Closely followed by a nightmare. I’m bleeding.
• • •
Honestly, I can’t remember what happened next. I thought what I felt in 
the next few minutes would at least be erotic. Maybe there was supposed be 
intense fear, or a surrender to an overwhelming force, or at least pain. 
I just feel numb. It’s just as well. I recall an awful lot of blood. Far 
too much blood, cascading over loverboy’s face, his lips, my lips? I don’t 
know. Something horrible happened, because I remember looking up at his 
face at one point, when he just wasn’t so terribly handsome anymore. 
Perhaps it’s my mind that’s reconstructed him as hideous. Once we were 
outside the club, his cologne probably smelled a lot worse than it nor-
mally was — I can’t stand the stuff anyway. Once it started, Demon Lover 
was gone, leaving me with some Demon crouched over my unconscious body. My 
mind remembers it as something from one of those old silent movies. Gray 
skin, sharp teeth, long fingernails. And the smell. He smelled like a dead 
thing, so cold and shivering. Or was that me?
Or is that me now? My eyes are shut, and the concrete floor beneath me 
feels very hard. So cold. So very cold. My inside’s feel like they’re 
shriveled, my skin itches something horrible, and at the back of my 
throat, it’s dry and... thirsty. Bright lights flash on around me. Then I 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
8
make the worst mistake of my life, one even worse than getting into the 
passenger seat of that sports car. I open my eyes.
Y’know, when I was 14, I used to daydream about Lestat coming and tak-
ing me away from all this. You can tell from the way I was dressed last 
night that I had fantasized about vampires, and Demon Lover could probably 
tell. No wonder his act was so carefully rehearsed. I had never dreamt, 
though, that it would ever be like this.
Before me is a perfect mirror, 20 feet wide. My thick thighs are the 
least of my problems now. My raven-black hair that just wouldn’t behave 
before is now a filthy, matted mess, falling out in clumps. My pearly teeth 
that I used to brush faithfully twice a day are decaying before my very 
eyes. Layers of skin are decaying, shriveling slowly into some kind of 
reptilian carapace. How many times had I looked over my face for the ti-
niest blemish or pimple? Rather a moot point now. The useless silk blouse 
I put on — how long ago? — now wrapped around a caved-in chest, my legs 
are withering within the leather miniskirt, my eyes are sinking into their 
sockets, and it’s all too much for me to take in. 
Then I realize I’m not breathing anymore.
The face I use to stare at every morning, noon and night, whose tini-
est flaws were an integral part of my identity, is now gone. Whether my 
nose was a little too small or my lips were a little too thick and all the 
bullshit makeup tips I used to hoard throughout my teenage years are all 
irrelevant. I suddenly feel like a fool having wasted so much time on van-
ity, because no matter how bad I looked getting up in the morning, it was 
infinitely better than the caved-in, scaly, sunken-eyed, slack-jawed thing 
I now see in the mirror before me. 
I am no longer me. I cannot be me any longer. I must become someone 
else. Because if I don’t, I’m going to go absolutely stark raving insane.
The Demon I remember crouched over my body — it wasn’t my imagination. 
It was real. And I can see in the mirror that he’s walking up behind me, 
but I’m too weak to turn around. I want to hate, to spit in his face, to 
at least put up a fight, but then the first wave of pain washes over me, and 
the nightmare continues.
• • •
The last week is a blur of sense memories and brutal flashbacks. Waves 
of crippling pain, an intense recurrent hunger, and numb resignation to my 
body’s metamorphosis. I would now give anything to turn 30. Instead, my 
body is trapped in this living death: My jagged nails will always be the 
exact same length, my matted rats’ nest of hair will always be teased at 
the same pathetic angle, and my face will be smashed in the exact same way 
every morning. Forever.
After a week of twitching, crawling and lapping up blood from the floor, 
after an eternity of not being able to tear myself away from that horror 
in the mirror, I have finally woken up somewhere else: someplace under-
ground, with running water and the distinct scent of moldering urine. 


Food Chain
9
Trembling, I rise to my clubbed feet, balance on the now snapped and use-
less heels, and gather about me the woolen blanket my Demon has left for 
me. I’m actually grateful for the improvement. The silk blouse and lucky 
miniskirt are still with me, reminding me of who I used to be, but the 
plush flesh that once made me recognizable as “female” has largely withered 
away. I don’t know what I am anymore. Once again, out of the corner of my 
vision, I can sense that Demon is watching me unseen. And it’s so cold. So 
very cold.
A rat scurries away from me, oblivious to my presence, and for a mo-
ment, I can feel the life and energy pulsing within it. The nerves twitch, 
its blood pulses, and the Hunger wells up in me again. Not for flesh, or 
even blood, but for Life, so that I can keep animating the withered husk 
that is my body. Intuitively, my corpse crouches down as I unleash a wave 
of mercy and pity from the depths of my shriveled heart. The little beas-
tie stops in its tracks, looks up at me and then scampers up onto my 
shoulder to twitch its scabrous, sore-covered fur at me.
My teeth are sharp and quick. Cold, sickening bile chokes in my throat, 
my jaw quivers, and I return what’s left of the animal’s carcass to the 
turbid, roiling river of shit that flows beside me. From the distance, I 
can feel my creator’s approval. I’ve just passed my first test. Life’s a 
bitch, I reflexively think, but now I’m dead.
• • •
Demon never shows himself to me. He just leads me on, like that first 
night in the club. I have no idea why — maybe he’s got all of eterni-
ty before him and it amuses him. Maybe he has plans for me. Most of the 
time, it doesn’t seem like he cares one way or the other whether I’ll get 
killed or whether my shambling body will just stop moving entirely, but he 
watches me very carefully, like a cruel and demanding parent. Maybe I’m 
expendable in some plan of his, but it doesn’t matter: Most of my atten-
tion is focused on learning my way around these tunnels below, hiding from 
the footsteps above ground and scheming up new ways to get blood. I know 
that if I fail, Demon will kill me; if not him, then any human being who 
saw me would want to slay me on sight.
Tonight, I’m back to the old hunting grounds again. No more rat 
blood for me; I’ve moved up the food chain. I’ve crouched in the shad-
ows of an alleyway, noting how many steps it is to the grate behind me 
in case I need to flee. The shadows envelop me — with a thought, I can 
wrap their layers of darkness around me like the old woolen blanket I 
discarded a week ago. I crouch like an animal, like a beast, like the 
monster I am, and once again, from under layers and layers of pain, I 
open up my dark heart with feelings of need and pity and mercy.  I ap-
pear to have a talent for it.
In a heartbeat (I presume, since I no longer have one), a ranting 
fool, a transient who’s been wandering up and down the street 50 feet 
away asking for change, is peering down the alleyway. Minutes ago, he 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
10
was hurling bitter obscenities at the people who passed him by. The 
living, happy breathing people walk briskly past him as though he’s 
invisible. Somehow, welling forth a wave of sympathy doesn’t take much 
effort. He staggers closer to where I’m hiding, probably wondering why 
he thought that something useful might be here, completely abandoning 
all reasonable instincts.
Darkness surrounds me, and my teeth are quick. I claw my way into his 
throat, his chest, and scratch further up the food chain. I am cold, so 
very cold, but as his blood and life trickles down my throat, I am suf-
fused with warmth, suckling at his throat until the smelly bag of his flesh 
falls limp. An animal must kill to survive, and if there’s one thing I’ve 
learned from the last few weeks, it’s this: I’m certainly not human any-
more. I am so much less and so much more.
• • •
Demon nods at me from the other side of the nightclub. No matter how 
many times I come here, the music always sounds the same. Sitting in the 
same crowded club on another pointless Saturday night, I no longer care 
whether it’s Old Wave, New Wave, Goth, Industrial or the usual shitty 
techno mix — I can’t even tell anymore. The same pounding rhythms shake 
the black frosted windows of the nightclub, the same taut young bodies 
writhe to the thunderous backbeat, and once again, I pretend to sip my wa-
tery beer, regarding the sweaty mass of flesh before me with equal doses of 
lust and pity.
Black’s still in fashion — it always is — so I sit in the corner with a 
black leather mini uncomfortably constricting around my withered thighs. 
Of course, as I look at the mirror, I can see that it’s no longer dark-
ness that wraps around me. It’s a whole new look, not unlike the one that 
I used to put on every night for a thousand nights during the inexorable 
climb to the age of 30. But now I get to play Barbie, too. I’ve learned to 
disguise myself as one of them. And I’ve even got my lucky panties on.
I don’t understand the latest fashions, but with a thought, I can make 
others think that I am the height of trendy. I’ve mastered the façades of 
this pathetically simple pecking order. A cute, stupid college kid saun-
ters past me. I smile. I open up the instinctive sympathy that pulses in 
my withered heart, and he stops walking past me. Like an animal, he is 
drawn out of lust and desperation, liberally mixed with booze. I know 
those feelings all too well and reflect them back at him.
Ken pulls up a chair and sits beside my Barbie-doll impersonation. He 
doesn’t care what thoughts are in my head, what feelings are in my heart 
or even who I am. I can feel his Life pulsing through him. Some of his 
blood is probably welling up inside his boxers right now. I throw out some 
opening line, but the music is so loud that he doesn’t hear, just faking a 
laugh instead. I’ve sat, and I’ve watched, and I’ve learned this routine 
over the course of many years. With a calculated stagger, I prop myself up 
on my “knock-you-down-and-kill-you” boots and get ready to lead him into 
the alleyway for a little bit of fun. My fun.


Food Chain
11
For all my suffering and misery and despair, I now know this place for 
what it truly is. There are a thousand clubs like this one. They’re open 
every week, and I go through the same motions there from month to month. 
I passed 30 a long, long time ago and frankly don’t give a shit. I finally 
know myself, what I truly am, and I’ve finally moved myself up to the top 
of the food chain.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
12


Chapter One: Legends and History
13
Chapter One: 
Legends  
and History
Beneath my feet then the earth must be tunnelled 
enormously, and these tunnellings were the habitat of the 
new race. The presence of ventilating-shafts and wells along 
the hillslopes — everywhere, in fact, except along the river 
valley — showed how universal were its ramifications.
	
— H.G. Wells, The Time Machine
Sometimes, dead things won’t stay buried. Dark se-
crets hidden from the curious have a way of resurfacing, 
like a dead body floating to the surface of a quagmire. 
Sometimes, corpses just won’t stay dead, either — in 
defiance of the laws of man and God, they rise from 
the depths to walk the Earth. From the lowest levels 
of city sewers to the dark heart of the wilderness, these 
monsters creep from the shadows to prey upon the hu-
man race. Their appearance is shocking; their stench is 
atrocious; their behavior is unquestionably alien. They 
are the grotesque monsters known as the Nosferatu.
Like most Kindred, Nosferatu hunger for the blood 
of the living and fear the light of day. Unlike their fairer 
brethren, Nosferatu are doomed to hide themselves 
from the world of men. Restlessly and relentlessly, they 
stalk the Earth until the Final Nights, the End Times 
of Gehenna, when the Ancient who created their race 
will awaken from torpid slumber to destroy them all. 
Let others speak of the romantic world of vampires; for 
these creatures, vampirism is undeniably a curse, a dark 
fate condemning them to an eternity trapped within a 
hell of their own flesh.
The Nosferatu have their origins in legend: They 
are the inheritors of an original sin as old as history 
itself. Aeons ago, the first Nosferatu created a childe 
out of passion, an act he would regret for millennia. 
That same passion later compelled him to rebel against 
the fiend who had created him, an act for which he 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
14
was cursed until the end of time. From that moment, 
Nosferatu and all his descendants degenerated into 
a race of hideous monsters, shockingly abominable 
beasts forced to hide from the world of humans to 
ensure their own survival. Overwhelmed by remorse, 
the Nosferatu Antediluvian sent his eldest childer to 
hunt down and destroy the clan he had spawned. Since 
that time, the minions of Clan Nosferatu have stalked 
unseen, knowing that someday their progenitor will 
atone for his sins by destroying and devouring the last 
of his monstrous offspring.
This legend echoes through the sewers of Camarilla 
cities. It is a tale still whispered by broods of Sabbat 
Creeps as they undergo the Vaulderie, sharing their 
communal chalices of blood. Yet there is far more to 
Clan Nosferatu than either Camarilla Kindred or Sab-
bat Cainites suspect.
On the surface, the Nosferatu seem like such simple 
creatures. They are all undeniably hideous, twisted into 
physical degeneracy from the first moment they become 
vampires. Most are skilled at supernatural Disciplines 
for remaining unseen; a few have an ability to commune 
with the most feral and savage creatures in existence; 
nearly all of them have a talent for uncovering dark 
secrets others would just as soon forget. Yet beneath 
their tortured flesh, they hold even darker secrets in 
the depths of their foul hearts.
To Camarilla and Sabbat neonates, Nosferatu are 
simply disgusting creatures that skulk in city sewers, 
hunt in city slums or lurk unseen wherever Kindred and 
Cainites gather. Unfortunately, both societies are only 
familiar with a very small portion of the world. They 
are familiar with the world above but know little of the 
Nosferatu’s labyrinthine warrens below. Misdirected 
by the obfuscative powers of slumbering Ancients, the 
elders and neonates of this modern world are oblivious 
to the vast kingdoms of giants in the Earth.
Above ground, two vast societies of vampires contest 
for dominance; both are unsure how to regard these 
bestial creatures. The first sect, the Camarilla, has a 
vastly exaggerated sense of its own power. Its history is 
inexorably intertwined with Western civilization, but 
the farther one travels from Europe and North America 
— the Old World and the New World — the more its 
influence wanes. Camarilla visionaries first traveled in 
the wake of human explorers, but whenever Kindred 
reached the edges of their maps — where imaginative 
men wrote the words “Here There Be Monsters” — they 
unearthed forgotten colonies of Nosferatu’s childer. 
No matter how far the Kindred ventured from the safe 
and structured domains of Camarilla society, they still 
found Nosferatu hiding there, waiting for them there 


Chapter One: Legends and History
15
and obeying instinctual traditions far older than the 
cowardly ways of civilized vampires. 
The second society, inhabited by the Cainites of 
the Sabbat, was originally created in rebellion against 
the Camarilla’s philosophies. Soldiers of the Sword of 
Caine frequently enlist Nosferatu as their allies, but 
they are just beginning to realize there is more to these 
creatures than meets the eye. Nosferatu Creeps are an 
enigma hidden under layers of wrinkled and tortured 
flesh. Those accepted into the Sabbat swear loyalty to 
the Sword of Caine — muttering oaths upheld by bonds 
of blood and reverently performed rituals — yet Sabbat 
Nosferatu are secretive, skulking, curious creatures. 
The Creeps have a fierce habit of skulking off to 
commune with their own kind whenever they can. 
Nosferatu who ally with Sabbat packs will fight to Fi-
nal Death to defend their allies, but they still demand 
places where they can be alone, contemplating horrors 
that only other Nosferatu can understand. They are at 
once the most bestial and humane clan in the Sabbat 
— masters of misdirection, silent hunters, secretive 
wanderers and, to the last one, overtly and unquestion-
ably abominable monsters.
Outside the realms of these two vampiric societies, 
other vampires gather, plotting vast conspiracies against 
the human race and their own kind. Some nightstalkers 
whisper that they are autarkis, rejecting the dictates 
of either sect. Lurking nearby, the emissaries of Clan 
Nosferatu silently and obediently listen to them. Some 
profess to be anarchs, scheming to overthrow the elders 
of both vampiric societies. As their packs and armies 
gather, Nosferatu silently follow the vanguard into battle. 
No matter where the Children of Caine muster their 
forces, the silent and unseen minions of Clan Nosferatu 
are already there, waiting for them.
Removed from all these societies, Clan Nosferatu 
furtively gathers its own kind. Broods of Sewer Rats, 
Creeps and other horrors gather in the deepest realms 
of city sewers, the furthest realms of the wilderness or 
any secluded haven where they may scheme unnoticed 
and undetected by other vampires. Beyond any other 
affiliation, they are all Nosferatu, sharing a common 
curse and common needs for survival. Their purpose, 
their culture and their exotic natures remain mysteries 
to those who roam the world above. Now, at last, foul 
effluvia and fouler revelations are starting to bubble 
up from their labyrinthine warrens beneath the earth. 
From the dregs of vampiric society, from the depths of 
the sewers, occulted beneath torpid rivers of urine and 
feces, the dead rise again, showing themselves in their 
true and terrible forms. 
Since the time of Nosferatu’s eternal curse, his 
childer have skulked to the hidden and forbidden places 
of the world, fleeing the vengeance of Nosferatu himself. 
For the sake of their own survival, they have formed curi-
ous societies that transcend any boundaries of vampiric 
sect or philosophical Path. Some of these shambling, 
hideous corpses choose to rise to the surface world, but 
many of them have remained hidden deep within the 
shadows of the world, waiting for the Final Nights. As 
Gehenna approaches and the End Times begin, there 
is no longer a need for such eternal patience. Forgotten 
broods of Nosferatu are emerging from the shadows to 
take their place in the struggles of the night. Buried 
deep beneath human civilization for millennia, the 
dead once again walk the earth.
A Hosting of 
Historians
WE ARE LEGEND. For time immemorial, our 
history has been passed down as stories and tales from 
one generation to the next. As we crouch in darkness, 
hiding from the world above, we pass gossip, trade 
secrets and, most importantly, tell stories to pass the 
long nights of immortality. Millennia before the kine of 
this Digital Age developed their short attention spans, 
distracted by sound bites, infomercials, 22-minute 
sitcoms and commercial jingles, our neonates learned 
to memorize the saga of our clan: the hidden history of 
the world. Just as we have hidden our disfigured faces 
from the human race for all time, so have we hidden 
our legends. 
Despite our observance of this tradition, many of our 
stories remain untold. Neonates struggle but simply do 
not have the talent to memorize our sagas word for word, 
as our forebears did long ago. The art of storytelling is 
being lost, notwithstanding the best efforts of those who 
struggle to preserve it. As each story is passed down, it 
is also distorted, embellished or corrupted. And worst of 
all, too many childer consider the stories of their clan 
simply that: Just Stories. 
As Gehenna approaches, more of our elders dis-
appear, never to be seen again, taking their legacies 
with them. Thus, while I still have the chance, I have 
given you the chance to listen and learn. We have 
gathered together a tunnel full of Nosferatu, a Host-
ing of historians, to chronicle the history of our clan. 
Together, neonates, they will help you understand 
who you are, where you came from and why we are 
all trapped here tonight in this dismal chamber far 
beneath the earth. 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
16
The Earliest Nights
Tusk, The Talebearer of Clan Nosferatu, begins:
I’ll begin with the oldest legend — you already 
know how it starts. First among the vampires was 
Caine, damned by God for slaying his only brother, 
Abel. As punishment, Caine was cursed with im-
mortality to reflect upon his foul deed and cast out of 
Eden for all eternity. I am told that, in that moment, 
Caine either called out the name of God or a pledge to 
God’s Adversary; either way, Caine gained the power 
of the Blood, supernatural abilities that are solely the 
province of the Damned. 
Caine created three childer and dwelled with them 
in the First City, known to many now as Enoch. Some 
say Caine himself was responsible for this haven’s cre-
ation. Caine’s three eldest childer called more humans 
into Enoch, so that the vampires could harvest the 
humans’ blood and be strengthened against the night. 
The youngest of these vampires was named Zillah — 
because she was the youngest, she was also the most 
distrustful of her sire. Her older brothers, Enosch and 
Irad, were content to stay within the walls of the First 
City, but Zillah was curious about the world outside it. 
While tribes of kine were drawn to it, others fled from 
Caine’s creation. The earliest mortals spoke ill of the 
city — it was a place where sin was plentiful and the 
laws of God were often cast aside.
Our chapter of the legend begins with a man who 
also did not trust the ways of Enoch. We are told he was 
a great hunter, a primitive who possessed such prowess 
that he sought to hunt the most powerful creatures in 
the world. The monsters that stalk the night in these, 
the Final Nights, are but distant descendants of the 
beasts he fought. The world has forgotten their names 
and their ways. As this hunter sought out the worst of 
the monsters of the world, he eventually found Zillah, 
the youngest of Caine’s three childer, who preyed upon 
the humans of the city of Enoch.
This man, whose true name has long since been 
lost to the past, lay in wait for Zillah for a hundred days 
and nights. He lured her into the wilderness, near the 
mouth of a deep cave. Although he could not see her, 
it is said that he noticed her footprints on the ground as 
she followed him. Once he had lured her far away from 
the First City, into the chaos of the wilderness, he drove 
a wooden spear deep into her heart. But Zillah was not 
so easily defeated. With the strength of the Blood, she 
broke his spear in two; with the power of the Blood, 
she slashed him across his face, marking him with a scar 
that would never heal; with the fury that burned in her 
Blood, she smashed him against the rocks of the cave 


Chapter One: Legends and History
17
with one powerful blow. His body, mind and weapon 
were broken, and he was close to death.
Yet Zillah was so impressed by his bravery that she 
thought she would reward him with the power of the 
Blood and Embrace him. She had come to hate her 
older brothers, and she knew that if she was to become 
more powerful than they were, she would need brave 
childer to aid her. And as she listened to the whispering 
of the Beast within her, she believed more and more 
that what she did was right. She looked down upon her 
childe with pity, and she renamed him “Nosferatu.”
The Downward Spiral
This hunter, Nosferatu, had once been a pinnacle 
among men, a titan who had triumphed over the most 
horrible beasts of the earth. Once he received the power 
of the Blood, his strength grew even more. He became 
mighty through drinking the blood of his prey, but he 
also learned to fear the three dangers we fear to this 
night: fire, sunlight and the treachery of men. For all his 
strength, he could not forgive himself for failing to slay 
Zillah. The mark on his face served as a reminder of his 
failure. Just as Zillah learned to hate her two brothers, 
Nosferatu learned to hate his sire as well. 
Once Nosferatu gained the power of the Blood, 
he became a greater hunter than ever. Zillah’s two 
brothers taught their own childer how to use the 
strength of their vitae, but Nosferatu was like a beast 
abandoned in the wilderness. In denial of his own 
descent from grace, he developed a terrible hatred 
of monsters. Nosferatu denied that he had become a 
monster himself, and exacted his rage on the lesser 
creatures of the Earth. And because he so hated the 
flaw ripped across his face, he learned to hide it, and 
himself, from any who would look. 
Nosferatu soon learned to create others in his im-
age. He taught his first childer how to hunt and how to 
look without fear upon the other creatures that roamed 
the night. While Caine’s eldest childer commanded the 
mortals of the First City, Nosferatu preyed upon those 
who wandered in the wilderness. Before his Embrace, 
Nosferatu had become strong by destroying the most 
powerful creatures he could find, but after Zillah had 
baptized him into darkness, Nosferatu learned to become 
a hunter of men.
Bound in Blood
Now, legend tells us that Caine wanted to main-
tain control over his eldest childer, so to keep them 
obedient, he learned of the blood bond, the surest way 
to enforce loyalty. By forcing them to drink his blood 
regularly, his eldest sons became loyal to him, but by 
then, Caine could not find all the childer they had 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
18
spawned. In the same way, Nosferatu learned to make 
his childer loyal to him; by forcing them into bonds 
of blood, he gained a clan of obedient followers. And 
as he nursed his hatred of his sire, Nosferatu spawned 
dozens of childer. 
Just as he had patiently waited a hundred days and 
nights to lure Zillah and destroy her, he created a brood 
of childer who would help him rise up and devour the 
monsters who had doomed him for all eternity. Just 
as the power of the Blood made Nosferatu strong, his 
hatred and remorse made him weak. When he roamed 
the night to hunt, he learned to treasure solitude be-
cause it was the only thing in the world that silenced 
the whispering of the Beast within him. 
One night, in a moment of passion, he saw a beauti-
ful woman bathing beside a stream. Again, her name 
has been lost from all the old stories; she now has a 
thousand names. He ravished her and drained her of 
her blood and then, because passion seized him, let her 
feast upon his blood as well. Before he could kill her 
and before he could realize what he had done, she fled. 
Unlike Nosferatu’s other childer, she was free because 
she was not bound by Nosferatu’s blood. Nosferatu was 
so furious that he gathered all his childer to him. At 
first, he commanded them to hunt this woman down 
and destroy her, but each night that they did not find 
her, his anger grew. 
When his hatred was so fierce that he could no 
longer stand it, he finally gathered them to assault the 
First City. His eldest childer, whom he called the Nic-
tuku, rallied around him and, with the silence of the 
grave, stalked the streets until they found Zillah and 
attacked her. And there followed a terrible battle. At 
its end, by the mouth of the cave where Nosferatu was 
first Embraced, Zillah smote down Nosferatu, leaving 
him broken and bloodied once again. Nosferatu’s childer 
fled, fearing the retribution that would follow.
The Curse
Then Caine came to see what had happened. While 
Nosferatu nursed his wounds, Caine looked down upon 
him with the fury of a god. God himself had cursed Caine 
for slaying his brother, and now, Caine stood before 
another of his relatives, a chide who had tried to kill 
his sire, his mother, Caine’s own daughter. At the sight 
of this attempted parricide, Caine was consumed with 
a vast and furious anger. And at that moment, Caine’s 
hatred gave him strength: He cursed Nosferatu and all 
his descendants. Nosferatu and Nosferatu’s childer and 
their childer’s childer all fell down accursed by the fury 
of Caine, bearing a curse far more hideous than the flaw 
upon Nosferatu’s face. And even the lone woman who 


Chapter One: Legends and History
19
had escaped into the woods, she too fell down, and her 
flesh withered, and her face cracked, and her bones 
warped, and for all eternity, she was to pass on the curse 
that Caine had placed upon Nosferatu.
Caine banished Nosferatu from the First City for-
ever. Nosferatu crept away to hide in the woods once 
again, to return to the cave where he had first died and 
to sleep until he could dream of a way to atone for his 
great crime. Many years passed, and the Nictuku waited 
faithfully, bound through blood to obey his desire. And 
the woman who had escaped, the Matriarch of our clan, 
went out into the world to create her own family and 
become the sire of us all. 
Time rolled on, and Caine’s eldest childer begat 12 
other childer, but that does not concern my story. A 
great flood came and destroyed the First City, and the 
Antediluvians slept beneath the waves until it passed, 
but neither does that concern my story. This is the end 
of the story: Nosferatu dreamt of a way to atone for his 
sin. As he slept, he summoned the Nictuku to him and 
commanded them to seek out the woman who had fled 
from him. To atone for what he had done, he would offer 
her up to Caine. But by that time, she had Embraced 
a multitude of childer, so Nosferatu pledged to destroy 
them all and offer them up to Caine. Nosferatu sent 
the Nictuku to slay them, one by one, and bring their 
ashes back to him so that he could make an offering to 
Caine and thus show his contrition.
It is said that we hide in the night because we fear 
the world of men. It is said that we hide from the light 
because we are hideous and ashamed of our cursed 
appearance, but this is not true. We hide in the night 
because we know that Nosferatu has sent out his eldest 
childer, the Nictuku, to destroy us all and offer our souls 
up to Caine. Caine’s other childer know that the time 
will come when the Antediluvians will all realize the 
horror of what they have done and rise up and destroy 
all their childer and offer their souls up to Caine, but 
for us, the killing has already begun. 
And that is why we crouch in the night, telling 
our stories, waiting and listening for the Nictuku to 
destroy us all. That is the story of how our clan began, 
and when the last of us has been found and destroyed, 
that will be the story of how our clan ends.
The Second Story: 
A Scientific History
An autarkis cynic pontificates:
I DON’T BELIEVE IN LEGENDS. They might 
sound attractive, and they might help pass the time, but 
I know them for what they are: lies. Legends are told to 
repeat the lies our society is based on, keeping the eldest 
The Nictuku Enigma
According to the Loremasters of Clan Nos-
feratu, the Nictuku are not a bloodline — they 
are eldest childer of the Nosferatu Antedilu-
vian himself. When legendary Nosferatu rose 
up against his sire and her relations, he did so 
with the aid of his own blood bound childer. 
Although blood bonds have been known to wear 
off over time, legend also has it that Nosferatu 
has repeatedly renewed these bonds of blood, 
summoning his eldest childer to his torpid body, 
where they may feed and renew their loyalty. 
This is not without its dangers, of course: If the 
Nictuku did not have such a command of the 
Obfuscate Discipline, another vampire could 
attempt to follow them to their master and 
diablerize this Ancient. Thankfully, the Nictuku 
are allegedly powerful enough to erase all traces 
of their presence... if they exist at all.
One further aspect of the legend of the 
fourth-generation Nictuku has resulted in a 
great deal of speculation within Nosferatu soci-
ety. Some legends state that before Nosferatu’s 
curse, he Embraced a beautiful woman out of 
sheer lust, one who is now the “Matriarch” for 
the rest of the clan. If this is true, this mysterious 
“Mother of All Nosferatu” has never revealed 
herself; furthermore, she is not known by any 
one definitive name — Matriarch is simply the 
most common one employed.
Other myths claim that three such Ancients 
escaped Nosferatu’s blood bond. This theory has 
some evidence to support it, since the infamous 
(and now deceased) sorceress Baba Yaga of Rus-
sian legend has been reputed to be a childe of 
the Antediluvian. If the Matriarch and Baba 
Yaga were the first two childer, then who was the 
third? Lore concerning Nosferatu’s supernatural 
abilities provides one possible explanation: The 
highest levels of the Obfuscate Discipline, it is 
well known, can obscure all traces of a Nosferatu 
so thoroughly that he or she may be effectively 
forgotten. While there may be hints of legends 
that this creature once existed, many efforts 
to find such a monster are often forgotten or 
abandoned. The Nictuku Enigma remains a 
tantalizing glimpse of the clan’s illustrious 
past — one as cryptic as the existence of the 
Nictuku themselves.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
20
As a result, we know the underworld better than 
any other clan. Long before the first cities of man rose, 
we claimed caves as our territory. In vast chambers 
beneath the earth, we rested, rising by night to feed 
on the living. No doubt this was the genesis of man’s 
primal fear of the night, of darkness, of the legendary 
“monsters sleeping beneath the earth.” Yet despite this, 
the Camarilla has created a lovely myth to comfort its 
childer shivering in the sewers. Through these lies, they 
attempt to keep us down there. Do you think our clan 
should be content with such a small kingdom? 
If you were to ask me where we all came from, I’ll tell 
you: We are descendants of the first life in the oceans. 
In fact, many Nosferatu still hide themselves beneath 
the water. We don’t need to breathe, being dead and 
all; if we did, we would have choked on rivers of sewage 
long ago. Storm tunnels, viaducts, irrigation canals — 
whether filled with sea water, urine or chemicals, we can 
submerge ourselves in just about anything and survive. 
We don’t trudge along the ocean floor, of course, since 
the pressure eventually gets too great — at least for the 
more recent generations — but I know many of you here 
tonight are going to shamble off back underwater when 
we’re done here. 
in power and the weakest in fear. They reinforce the 
status quo. We Nosferatu don’t survive because of our 
ability to tell stories, we survive because of our cynicism 
and mistrust. It is my duty as a Nosferatu to keep that 
spark of doubt alive, and fortunately, the story you’ve 
just heard is enough to fuel that spark into a raging 
bonfire. If there’s a story to be told, it should begin like 
this: In the beginning, there was a great lie, and for some 
reason, we all believed it. 
I’ll start with Fact One: There is no proof that 
Caine ever existed. Does that shock you? I do not 
believe that God cursed Caine; in fact, since I don’t 
believe in God, that shouldn’t surprise you. I was never 
a religious man before my Embrace, yet my sire insisted 
that we are all hideous because we were all cursed by 
God and Caine for some mythical, mystical, biblical 
event. Maybe Caine works as a metaphor for the first 
vampire, but the legend of how vampires came to be 
just doesn’t make sense. 
Why would God curse Caine by making him 
immortal? Why would God re-create him as the 
most powerful creature on the planet? Does that 
seem like punishment to you? I’ve heard from a few 
demented fools actually claiming to be Caine, but 
they’ve all been revealed as frauds. So, here’s the next 
part of my story: Nosferatu should not fear Caine because 
Caine does not exist. 
I am a Nosferatu, and by that, I mean that I am 
a species of vampire evolved to live in subterranean 
domains — no more, no less. I may be hideous by hu-
man standards, but so are many of the other creatures 
that hide from man. There are other types of vampires 
in the world, but they are far more prone to accept the 
standards of mankind. The oldest ones have formed com-
munities to promote their own survival: The two largest 
ones are the Sabbat and the Camarilla. Both societies 
have stories about us being cursed by God and Caine 
alike. Both insist that we all have to band together to 
protect ourselves from Caine’s childer. There is a reason 
for this: Both societies would just as soon exploit us for 
the sake of their survival, and oddly enough, I cannot 
accept what either of them profess.
I do, however, believe in evolution (like most kine 
in this age), largely because it is a theory that can be 
supported with scientific facts. If there really was a 
creature like Caine, he no doubt stumbled out of a cave, 
not out of some mythical utopia called “Enoch.” From 
there, evolution specialized us into 13 major species; 
the story of Caine creating the 13 Antediluvians is, 
again, a facile metaphor for this fact. The Nosferatu 
are merely the species of vampire that thrived best 
beneath the earth. 
A Romantic History
A Camarilla Cleopatra explains the story of 
Nosferatu and Arikel:
Every Nosferatu has a favorite story: I’d love 
to tell you mine. The Toreador have a rather fas-
cinating tale about our kind, one that’s supposed 
to explain why the two clans despise each other 
so much. It’s said that before Nosferatu was cursed 
by Caine, he was beautiful; the Degenerates of 
Clan Toreador believe he even fell in love with 
an Antediluvian named Arikel. When he was 
made hideous, he was so ashamed that he could 
never show himself to his true love again. 
Nosferatu, in his rage, hunted his own childer 
and forced them into hiding, but Arikel celebrated 
the Embrace of her childer and taught them to 
revere beauty. Nosferatu’s lost love, Arikel, cre-
ated the Toreador, and apparently, they’ve pitied 
us ever since. Isn’t that beautiful? I heard this story 
from a rather handsome storyteller, and he still 
repeats the story faithfully to me each night. You 
see, I’ve nailed him to a cross in my haven and 
kept him fed with my vitae every night. He will 
love me forever, as Arikel and Nosferatu never did.


Chapter One: Legends and History
21
Yet for some reason, we’re supposed to all congre-
gate in the city sewers, presumably because of all the 
kine nearby. That’s why the Camarilla and the Sabbat 
have added the story of Enoch, the First City, to their 
legends. There is no proof for the existence of the First 
City, either; thus, I have no reason to suspect it was ever 
real. Kindred scholars and archaeologists have gone 
looking for it, but even Aristotle de Laurent himself has 
never found it. I prefer to consider it another myth, one 
used to describe the way the first vampires controlled 
human society. 
And, of course, as you’ve just heard, Nosferatu’s 
eldest childer, the Nictuku, are supposed to be silently 
preying on our brothers and sisters. We’ve been told 
over and over that they are as hideous as they are 
ancient. Isn’t that great? There’s someone that’s actu-
ally uglier than we are! Supposedly, the Nictuku are 
so preternaturally stealthy that they have never been 
seen, even by the Nosferatu. Thus, we’re supposed to 
believe they’re real because no one can actually prove 
they’re there! Brilliant, isn’t it? If you want to know 
why we all cower beneath the cities of the world, it’s 
because the story of the Nictuku has been told and 
revised and retold over and over again. “Trust us,” the 
elders say, “or we won’t be able to protect you from 
the imaginary Nictuku!”
There’s a moral to my story. You can choose to prop 
up the Camarilla and the Sabbat, but the only real rea-
son to do so is for the sake of a good fairy tale. There’s 
no reason why we should limit ourselves to wading 
through rivers of shit. In fact, there are plenty of us who 
haven’t, and I appear to be the only one brave enough 
to come to this Hosting and say it. I firmly believe that 
we are ready for the next stage in our evolution, and it 
starts with leaving Camarilla cities like the one we’re 
in now behind. 
The tales of the Great Flood that almost destroyed 
the Antediluvians is sheer fantasy, as ridiculous as the 
tales of Nosferatu’s curse and the Nictuku, but there is 
a whole world out there removed from the treachery of 
other vampires. Some of the autarkis have already begun 
venturing further out to sea, rising only as necessary to 
feed. I invite you to join us. The Camarilla has created 
a false history for you, a false sense of shame for you and 
a convenient place for you beneath their city domains. 
I reject their society utterly. I am autarkis, and I travel 
where I please. Beneath the water, beneath the Earth, 
beneath the feet of my lessers, I am Nosferatu; the rest 
of you who stay behind are the ones who believe in lies.
The Third Tale: 
A Conspiracy Theory
A Nosferatu architect creates a biased history of human 
civilization:
YOU’LL THINK I’M CRAZY, BUT I DON’T CARE. 
You won’t believe me, but I’ll say it anyway: For as long as 
humans have built cities, we’ve rebuilt them to accommo-
date our kind. For every massive city above ground, there’s 
an underworld below it that the mortals rarely see. How 
else do you think the Nosferatu have survived for so long? 
Why else would Caine have given us such potent strength, 
if not to help us to build? Given the power of the Blood, 
the occasional ghoul to act on our behalf above ground 
and all of eternity before us, we have been steadily build-
ing our underworld since the beginning of history itself.
I know because I have seen it. Beneath the pyramids 
of Egypt, there are chambers that can be entered only by 
mists or shades, where Ancients rest in torpor awaiting 
the end of time. Beneath Venice, they are flooded build-
ings that have not seen the light of day for centuries, 
where Methuselahs do not need to breathe or feed but 
only to sleep and dream. I have crawled through the 
catacombs of Paris and Rome, where the undead stalk 
among the bodies of the decayed and subterranean 
ghouls reverently obey their every whim. Our world is 
the unseen, and we have been building it for centuries. 
The Tigris, the Euphrates and the Nile
Even the most naïve neonate should realize that 
we haven’t always lived in the sewers. The history of 
the Nosferatu goes back much farther than the history 
of sewage systems. The earliest civilizations, like those 
of the Babylonians and the Egyptians, were far more 
concerned with irrigation than waste disposal. As our 
autarkis colleague is so quick to point out, vampires 
don’t need to breathe, so irrigation canals and viaducts 
were essential for hiding in the midst of civilization. 
If you crack open a history book, you’ll find out that 
the Egyptians living along the Nile carefully watched 
how the river changed over time, since this was crucial 
to their science of agriculture. We had to as well, I am 
told, because we built one of our earliest civilizations 
under that river — not much of one, but enough to keep 
us under the silt and away from the crocodiles. From a 
series of broods under the Nile, we raided for blood up 
and down the river. I have heard stories of other vampiric 
civilizations that existed during that time, such as those 
of the warring childer of Set and Osiris. That had little 
to do with us, though; in the same way our broods stay 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
22
removed from the deadliest Kindred games, the Nosferatu 
of Ancient Egypt refused to take sides. I am certain, of 
course, that doesn’t mean we didn’t occasionally sell 
secrets about one group to the other....
The Roman Empire
Ancient Rome was much better suited for our kind, 
largely because it offered us more places to hide. The 
Romans developed some of the first really elaborate 
systems for managing waste water because of their fond-
ness for public baths. The cultural practice of regular 
bathing created a flood of excess water, see, and the 
Romans had to find a way to drain it from the city daily. 
Of course, public baths were also very amusing places 
for Roman Nosferatu to feed. A lone, naked, defenseless 
kine swimming in tepid water is easy prey. A Roman 
senator with his ass hanging out? Even better.
Rome faced a problem that all the really big ancient, 
and later medieval, cities had: storm runoff. During a 
season of heavy rainfall, all the water falling from the 
sky has to go somewhere, preferably away from people’s 
homes. For both of these reasons, Ancient Rome origi-
nally used a series of surface drains to carry waste water 
and storm runoff into the Tiber River. I’ve heard that 
in parts of Eastern Europe, there dwell certain vampires 
who are unable to cross running water. Not the Roman 
Nosferatu — they would have died out! For the Sewer 
Rats of Clan Nosferatu, all that flowing water provided 
them with a perfect opportunity for feeding off a huge 
herd of kine.
As the cliché goes, Rome wasn’t built in a day; in-
stead, it grew steadily larger and larger over the course 
of several centuries. Ventrue and Malkavian elders 
have already taken a great deal of credit for that, but 
I don’t particularly give a damn. What’s important is 
that elder Nosferatu used their influence — a senator 
here, a wealthy family there — to help decide how all 
that excess water was going to be diverted. With all 
the politics going on in Rome, we also wanted to bring 
more Nosferatu into the city without requiring them to 
continually bother with using the Obfuscate Discipline. 
The Ancients tend to see around such disguises, right?
During the city’s latter nights, the Romans decided 
that, because their surface drains were so terribly flooded, 
they needed to enclose them. The result was a series of 
long vaulted tunnels — the Cloaca Maxima — running 
through the most populous areas of the city. Let the 
other clans babble on about world leaders and major 
battles. This was one of the most important events in the 
history of our clan. Within three centuries, the entire 
sewer was vaulted, giving Nosferatu broods in Rome a 
chance to meet regularly and undisturbed. 
The start of the Dark Ages was a major blow to the 
clan, but by then, some of the Cainites who survived were 
eager to re-create versions of Rome’s Cloaca Maxima in 
other cities. Wherever Cainites conspired to help a city 
grow, if only for the sake of building a large herd of kine, 
it is likely there was a Nosferatu there wanting to influ-
ence where the sewer lines were going to go.
The European Middle Ages
As I mentioned, the next centuries were difficult 
times for us Sewer Rats. However, when the other 
Kindred stopped listening to the local Nosferatu, we 
eventually figured out that this water-management 
system we developed wasn’t just a nifty way to sneak 
around town. It was also a weapon.
Long before the kine figured out the importance of 
good sanitation... well... we were already steeped in the 
subject (if you’ll pardon the expression). In certain cit-
ies, broods of Nosferatu made the connection between 
the importance of diverting waste and the outbreaks of 
disease where they fed. After all, many medieval Nos-
feratu were... well... “bottom feeders” in medieval cities, 
soaking up blood from the lowest social strata. The poor 
and starving were often the first to suffer epidemics, and 
we watched their society as thoroughly as we watched 
the waste water that flooded out of a city. 
Throughout the Dark Ages, many of the largest 
cities depended on the old Roman systems of waste 
An Untimely Interruption
Alexander Ruxard, a Nosferatu academic, politely 
interrupts:
PARDON ME! If I might just interject for one 
moment. Yes, you haven’t noticed me standing 
over here in the corner, but I thought, if I may... 
if I may be so bold, I might point out a sort of 
a footnote, if you will, to your historical remarks. 
You see, I’ve heard other scholars aver that a very 
few ancient Nosferatu refuse to accept the fall 
of the Roman Empire at all! Because there are 
sections of Rome that have remained essentially 
unchanged, they’ve haunted the same environs for 
century after century, skulking beneath the city, 
surrounded by the corpses of the men and women 
they once preyed on. Other vampires have tried 
to displace them from this underground king-
dom, particularly Necromancers desirous of the 
knowledge they guard, but such creatures would 
dare not abandon the catacombs of Rome. Oh, 
do forgive me... pray, continue.…


Chapter One: Legends and History
23
water management. When these fell into disrepair, the 
drinking water would get mixed with the sewer water. 
This would result in outbreaks of infectious diseases 
like cholera and typhoid. Science and superstition be 
damned — when you skulk around in the stuff, you 
tend to notice things like that! Of course, princes who 
didn’t pay attention to such things were just asking to 
get blackmailed. That’s part of where we got our sinister 
reputation. A Nosferatu elder could easily threaten a 
prince, and if he didn’t listen, his kine would suddenly 
and mysteriously start to get very, very sick. A vengeful 
Nosferatu who continued this process along could hold 
an entire medieval city hostage, if need be.
A few of the more ambitious Nosferatu crawled 
up from the muck of European cities to feed on the 
other layers of sediment composing medieval soci-
ety. Many of the other clans were what you might 
call “picky eaters,” and prejudice, especially anti-
Semitism, was an integral part of both Cainite and 
kine society throughout the Middle Ages. I’ll leave 
it to others to speak of the Nosferatu broods that fed 
off the Moors of Northern Africa or thriving Jewish 
communities — I’m more of a plumber than a theo-
logian or ethnologist.
The Importance of Waste
I can, however, tell you plenty about sewage. Nos-
feratu don’t just muck about with sewers because they 
need a place to hide. Sewers, viaducts, storm runoff and 
waste management are all essential to the health of a 
major city. Pragmatic Nosferatu watch over this aspect 
of city management very carefully because it is essential 
to building a healthy herd of human kine. The more 
the city prospers, the more vampires can live there. 
Once more vampires gather in a city, like the Roman 
Nosferatu in their sewer system, the result is a thriv-
ing vampiric culture. Vampires swarm around a secure 
feeding ground like flies on shit, and they aren’t that 
much further up the food chain.
If it weren’t for us, all the Elysium toadies would 
be back in the Dark Ages, feeding off wormy peas-
ants. Sadly, most major cities in the Middle Ages were 
especially unenlightened in the field of waste manage-
ment. In places where the Romans hadn’t built sewer 
systems, the first innovative attempts at organized waste 
removal involved privy vaults, usually constructed to 
serve several families. 
Wealthy families knew how inefficient privy vaults 
were and thus preferred to live adjacent to or over a 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
24
waterway or river. In Britain, London Bridge was a 
choice piece of real estate for precisely this reason. 
Of course, once we Nosferatu were granted domains 
in such a city, it suited us just fine, giving us covert 
access to wealthy homes the Ventrue never had. Un-
fortunately, privy vaults were often drained into the 
wrong sewers, since most kine were unaware of one 
of the most important aspects of sewage management. 
Hold it right there... don’t lose that look on your face, 
because I’m going to keep you in suspense....
Stagnating in the Renaissance
With the birth of the Camarilla in the 15th century, 
the concept of sewers, waterways and viaducts as terri-
tory became a crucial one. Since the 15th century, some 
have tried to generalize a particular difference between 
Camarilla Sewer Rats and Nosferatu Creeps. Allegedly, 
Camarilla Nosferatu favor living below ground, while 
shameless Sabbat Nosferatu prefer blighted areas above 
ground. Such Kindred theorize that the Camarilla 
Nosferatu’s carefully maintain city sewers to help a city 
grow; in contrast, the Sabbat Nosferatu allegedly favor 
destroying urban areas above ground to help a city decay. 
At the risk of offending some of you, I can give plenty 
of contrary examples.…
Alexander Ruxard interrupts:
Um... excuse me... pardon me.… But I think you’ve 
gotten quite a bit ahead of our other guests. Your story 
is certainly very... um... fascinating, but perhaps we 
should give one of the other Sewer Rats a chance? Oh, 
no, forgive me….
The Sixth Tale: 
The Ravenous Manitou
A Sabbat Bestial confesses:
ENOUGH OF THIS SHIT. IT’S MY TURN NOW. 
Don’t ever forget: We were hunters before we were ever 
monsters. Nosferatu was Embraced because Nosferatu 
loved to kill. That has always been our strength: feeding 
off the masses of humanity, draining them of enough 
blood until the swelling of their cities subsides. The 
Camarilla’s pawns have done this by leeching off them 
bit by bit, but I have no patience for such a tiresome 
existence. Others will tell you how wonderful the cities 
are, but they fill me with loathing.
Four hundred years ago, I was Embraced in such 
a place: a cesspool called Rouen. At the time, Europe 
reeked with bloated cesspools where millions of mortals 
stumbled around waiting for vampires to kill them one 
by one. When I left for the New World, I told myself I’d 
never go back to the Old Country again. The thought 
of exploring an untouched continent appealed to me. I 
hadn’t realized that what I’d find there would be worse.
Humans fled to the New World in droves, and there 
were vampires willing to risk travelling abroad as well. I 
knew a few packs of nomadic Sabbat vampires who risked 
the trip in pine boxes, and most of them never made 
it. The risk was great, but not long after the colonists 
landed in New England, the Sabbat was there, ready 
to feast on the weak. At the time, I relied on the aid of 
a brood of fellow Nosferatu; the thought of hiding in 
a coffin for a few months didn’t concern me much, as 
long as I had others to protect me. That’s what packs are 
for. Some of us made the voyage in torpor; the rest had 
the cunning to go above the decks and feed at night.
My first few years in the New World made for the 
greatest time of my existence. The humans were far 
removed from the rest of civilization, so far away that 
we had no need to pretend there was a Masquerade at 
all. In one glorious orgy of blood, my brood could tear 
apart an entire settlement, drag the survivors back to 
our caves, hang them from the walls and drain them 
of blood for nights. Then, once the provisions ran out, 
we’d head to the next town. 
Our fortune was too good to last, though. We thought 
we had the continent all to ourselves, but we were fools. 
There were other things out there in the woods, far older 
things than we knew about. We’d catch a glimpse of them 
once in a while, hideous beasts that attacked at night, 
dragging off one or two humans who’d strayed too far. Of 
course, the colonists thought they were prepared, blamed 
the natives, loaded their muskets and prayed to their God 
for help. Unfortunately, their God did not seem to care.
The ductus of our pack seemed to think that hunting 
down one of these beasts would make for an excellent 
ritus, and for some reason, we agreed with her. Maybe our 
“cabin fever” was worse than I remember it. One night, 
we decided we’d go out into the woods and hunt the local 
monsters ourselves, just to teach them a lesson. What we 
learned was this: The monsters were a lot like us. From 
the brief glimpses we obtained, we realized that there were 
Nosferatu in the New World and had been for hundreds, 
possibly thousands, of years. We eventually proved this by 
capturing one and torturing it for information. 
Apparently, the bestial Nosferatu vampires that had 
been living there never really got out of the “hunter” 
stage you hear about in the old myths. The one we 
tortured kept babbling in his savage tongue about how 
he was going to devour all our souls, eat up the souls 
of the humans, feed his hunger — he kept raving on 
and on. We didn’t understand his language, but he did 
seem to have a fantastic command of Animalism, so we 


Chapter One: Legends and History
25
shared at least one feral language. Later we found out 
that the natives referred to him as a “manitou,” a spirit 
creature that feasted on spiritual essence. His methods 
of feeding were even more efficient than ours: All the 
primitives knew there was a monster skulking out there, 
picking them off one by one, but they would still leave 
sacrifices for him once in a while, just to keep him from 
going crazy and killing them all.
The manitou had a host of strange delusions. One of 
them concerned his choosing an animal as his “totem” 
and eating the souls of its children to gain strength. He’d 
find his totem animal — in this case, a bear — take over 
its soul and use it to go out and kill. Then he’d send his 
spirit back to the cave and set out again to hunt the bear. 
Maybe he was deranged, but to our ductus, it sounded 
like fun. Soon, we all realized that if we could learn to 
do what he did, we’d never have to leave the damned 
caves. Our pack spoke gloriously of commanding all the 
wolves around the primitive encampment, seizing all their 
spirits and setting out for the West, killing as we went.
We wanted his power, so we took it. We all gathered 
around his body and showed him how we committed 
diablerie in the Old Country. Then we tracked down 
his cave and found his tribe and set to work hunting 
humans from one side of the continent to the other. 
As you have no doubt heard, many of the packs of the 
Sabbat have adapted the practices of Native Americans 
into their ritae. We were no different. My brood learned 
to hunt like the manitou, and we’ve been collecting 
souls that way ever since.
Colonial America
Alexander Ruxard, Nosferatu academician, intrudes 
once more:
HOW THRILLING! If you don’t mind, I should 
take this opportunity to add a codicil, if you will... an 
addendum to that rather exciting tale. For I would not 
want us to neglect the story of the actual cities of the 
New World, yes? As the kine continued to colonize early 
America, you see, they developed a series of small towns 
and villages along the East Coast, particularly farther 
north, in New England and like places. While Cama-
rilla history seems terribly focused on places like New 
York and Boston, the large cities managed by elders and 
those sorts, few of us remember to include the story of 
the smaller towns, because typically, they’re really more 
of a Nosferatu sort of thing. The other clans seem to go 
in for all the prestigious people and places, but we’ve 
been content to live in the cracks. At least, I have... I 
wouldn’t dream of speaking for the rest of you....
At any rate, the most prosperous cities drew plenty 
of ambitious neonates wanting to make a name for 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
26
themselves as princes and primogen (or, more commonly, 
cardinals and ducti). The smallest towns were deemed 
beneath their notice. Who cared whether a town or vil-
lage with fewer than a hundred people lived or died? Such 
places were tightly knit and typically religious, making it 
nearly impossible for Kindred or Cainites to establish a 
domain... unless, of course, they were particularly good 
at hiding their activities from mortals.
Antisocial Nosferatu found these quaint little burgs 
to be especially well-suited to their temperament. Sewer 
Rats who had traveled across an ocean to escape the 
politics of the Old World weren’t terribly eager to toler-
ate the burgeoning vampiric gentry of the New World. 
New England and the East Coast supported thousands 
of tiny villages where a solitary Nosferatu could lurk and 
feed undisturbed. When I hear mention of Nosferatu 
Solitaries — as many of you young neonates no doubt 
will! — I think of this historical example.
Unfortunately, as is so often the case, many of these 
solitary Nosferatu could not resist the temptation to med-
dle with the local kine, sometimes choosing the humans 
of a particularly influential family as their herds. Just as 
Ventrue put their indelible “stamp” upon the wealthiest 
families of the largest cities, Nosferatu Solitaries ghouled 
isolated humans in the smallest cities. Since a Nosferatu 
ghoul often becomes unattractive or even degenerate from 
prolonged exposure to his master’s vitae, the most inhu-
man Nosferatu created rustic communities whose squalor 
and decay reflected their own tormented souls. Thus, the 
Nosferatu are part of a hidden history of America, of the 
towns that failed, where slatternly women bred squalling 
children, where outsiders shuddered at the mention of 
incestuous families who passed along the same horrific 
taint from one generation to the next.
The Origins of the Camarilla
A former Camarilla Primogen makes a brief point:
Yes, yes, this is very nice, us taking credit for much 
of the history of the world and everything, but I think 
you’ve all exaggerated things a bit. Hell, we haven’t 
even played that big a role in the history of vampires, 
let alone the history of the world. In Kindred society, 
the Nosferatu only really play two roles: watching and 
bitching. Since we’re so far outside of Camarilla society, 
it’s been our legacy to criticize what the other clans do.
I’ll give you an example: the climax of the Anarch 
Revolt. 1493, the Convention of Thorns, near Silchester, 
England — Nosferatu were there, but hardly played a 
pivotal part. Josef von Bauren represented Clan Nos-
feratu, but from what I’ve heard, he didn’t do much more 
than listen to speeches and pose. You’d have thought 
he was a Toreador, for all the good he did!
On the other hand, his archon, Federico, did far 
more than von Bauren did, because the archon sat 
and watched what was going on very, very carefully. 
While his sire postured and preened, Federico didn’t 
really trust any of it. That way, he was one of the first 
to notice that the anarchs weren’t all that keen on the 
idea of this society the rest of them were forming. If it 
wasn’t for Federico’s skepticism about Camarilla society, 
the anarchs would have had the element of surprise in 
their attack. Because he watched and bitched about 
how badly the whole thing was going, the Founders 
actually survived the Convention of Thorns.
I’ll keep this brief, since my colleagues have a habit of 
going on for a bit: From the moment the Camarilla began, 
it’s been our role to stay cynical, skeptical and doubtful. 
Because we’re farther outside vampiric society than any 
other clan — well, except the Gangrel, now, I guess — we 
have a far more objective view of what’s going on... and 
going wrong. That’s my function as a primogen: to speak 
up when no one else realizes how messed up things are. 
Of course, I’m not so delusional as to think that 
there’s no Caine, like that fellow who seems to have 
disappeared from the room, but.... Hey, did anyone notice 
where he went? A few of us who were here appear to be 
missing. I think I’m going to take a quick look outside 
in the sewer tunnel.…
The Historian’s Addendum
Behold the return of Alexander Ruxard, Nosferatu 
Academic:
GOOD HEAVENS! I do hope nothing’s wrong. 
Have we gotten to the 18th century yet? I can’t believe 
that you’ve neglected to mention one of the most fasci-
nating... simply most fascinating aspects of our history. I 
refer to 1789, more specifically Paris. Now, mind you, 
I’ve heard rumors that the Nosferatu of Paris assumed 
a part in the French Revolution, fomenting dissent 
against the aristos and such. 
Allegedly, there was a brood of Sewer Rats there 
who hated the Degenerate vampires of the Parisian 
Camarilla with such fervor that they developed an 
underground conspiracy. Since that time, in a typically 
Victor Hugo sort of fashion, many criminals fleeing from 
the gendarmes have found themselves aided by unseen 
benefactors in the sewers of Paris, sympathizers who 
leave behind trails to facilitate their escape, food and 
water or even weapons to lash out at the hated Parisian 
Toreador and Ventrue. Simply fascinating, don’t you 
think! Oh... oh, my, you’re all looking at me in that 
way again. Do forgive me for interrupting....


Chapter One: Legends and History
27
The Eighth Tale: 
Within The Thieves’ Citadel
A Camarilla Fagin brags:
THERE IS ONE CONSTANT IN THE EVOLU-
TION OF OUR CLAN: As human society has become 
more complex, we have had to become more ingenious 
in our methods of subterfuge. Without our wit and in-
stinct, the kine would have flushed us from their cities 
like the Sewer Rats we are a long time ago. Fortunately, 
I have never been one for inhabiting such an obvious 
place as the sewers. My eternal curse began in the city of 
London, circa 1898. The exact year escapes me because 
I never had the benefit of a calendar. For that matter, 
I never had the benefit of a gentleman’s education, 
indoor plumbing or the name of my mortal father. You 
see, before I was properly schooled in the ways of the 
world and educated myself in its iniquities, I am afraid 
I belonged to the “lower classes,” as they say. I survived 
by means of theft, as a garden-variety guttersnipe.
For all its accomplishments, Victorian London had 
quite a few neighborhoods where the masses of human 
beings crawled inexorably into the gutter. History books 
are filled with glorious praise for what the aristocracy 
achieved, but in the city I remember, crime bred freely. 
There were hidden domains where the guardians of law 
and order dared not tread. The newest buildings were 
very attractive, but they often surrounded abandoned 
buildings and condemned tenements, creating complex 
mazes in the more impoverished parts of town. The 
desperate and the destitute lived in the alleyways and 
tunnels in-between, labyrinths above ground perfectly 
suited to the local Nosferatu. In my youth, my merry 
band claimed such an abandoned building as our own 
and fortified it against the local constabulary.
Street people swarmed to these places, especially 
since they were so easy to defend against intruders. 
In my dreams, I can still see the paths I used to tread: 
roofing precariously stretched across neglected yards 
and gardens; rickety walkways connecting the upper 
stories of rotting buildings; cellars accessible only 
through neglected tunnels. Only the inhabitants who 
were intimately familiar with the dangers within — 
from collapsing doors and floors to insidious deadfalls 
— entered with impunity. Deep within these mazes, 
criminals planned robberies, fencers stored their goods, 
fugitives cowered and the destitute scrounged. This 
was the heyday of the “rookery,” the robber’s nest: the 
infamous Thieves’ Citadel.
Nosferatu fed freely in such slums because their 
stalking grounds had been forsaken by all the other 
clans. The humans would usually swarm into a few 
communal areas — typically hidden kitchens — where 
they could warm themselves beside trash-can fires. Once 
they ventured from these secluded elysia, they were 
easy prey. The kine slept in large numbers, sometimes 
10 or 15 to a room, because they knew what might 
happen if they were left alone. I can still see the ambi-
ence of my favorite haunts: greasy windows, moldering 
floorboards covered with straw, walls tinged with soot 
and an aroma only a few shades more tolerable than 
the sewers themselves. 
While it was possible for most of us to stalk unseen, 
some preferred to recruit others to do their dirty work 
for them. Ghouls are ruthlessly efficient, especially 
when thoroughly addicted to our blood. Turning the 
denizens of a rookery into a blood cult is childe’s play. 
Once you found one ghoul you could command, it was 
easy to have him recruit another... and another... until 
you’d built an entire cult of them ready to do your bid-
ding. The most ingenious Nosferatu developed entire 
blood cults of criminals and used them to spread their 
influence throughout the city. Dickens, of course, wrote 
a rather astute parody of our kind. Ever afterward, we 
were proud to call ourselves “Fagins.”
Of course, the luminaries of this era, such redoubt-
able figures as Mithras and Queen Anne, were at first 
horrified to hear of the crimes our dens of iniquity en-
couraged. They changed their opinion when we began to 
contribute to the cause of the Camarilla. The Nosferatu 
of Victorian London were a highly organized brood, and 
between us, we developed an underworld whose tentacles 
thoroughly infested the city. The real pulse of the city 
was in the streets, and we fed rapturously from its veins. 
Thus, we were the most informed about the “word on the 
street” and traded such wealth carefully. The idea of the 
Nosferatu mastermind, the Victorian Fagin, soon came 
into vogue on the Continent as well. Throughout the 
civilized world, concentrations of Nosferatu soon bred 
concentrated criminality.
Of course, the Fagins of today are creatures I 
no longer understand. Perhaps my memories of my 
neonate days are hopelessly romantic, but now I find 
myself surrounded by new waves of foreigners, cheaply 
available handguns and drugs far more addictive than 
anything in my day. Gone are the smoky opium dens 
where we could expect to feed on the occasional 
Chinaman, the factories from which I could lure fa-
tigued children. I welcome Gehenna, for I tire of this 
new age. Instead, I must content myself with reverie, 
remembering the golden age of the Nosferatu and the 
glory of Victorian London.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
28
More Historical Shit
One of our previous storytellers, an architect and 
plumber, interrupts:
WAIT A MINUTE! You’ve talked about the 19th 
century without mentioning the most important human 
of all: Thomas Crapper. You heard me, the inventor 
of the flush toilet, the patron saint of Clan Nosferatu. 
No, really — do you think that we’d have these vast 
warrens to skulk around in if it wasn’t for plumbing? If 
you like, I can even take this part of our history a bit 
further back. All this fancy plumbing over our heads, all 
these tunnels that you crawl through, they’re far more 
elaborate than anything the Romans had. All that was 
because of another hero, a scientist named John Snow. 
Now, I know you’ll be disappointed to hear he wasn’t a 
vampire, but when you hear what he did, you’ll realize 
how much of what we have here is because of the kine.
The 19th century was the time when humans started 
realizing what we already knew: If you didn’t manage 
your sewer systems adequately, disease would spread. I’ve 
made that point, haven’t I? The Industrial Revolution 
made that concept more important than ever before. 
The increased concentration of human population, 
combined with the vast flow of industrial waste from 
their massive new factories, vastly advanced the need 
for complex and effective sewage treatment and water 
management.
John Snow was an English physician who proved 
this need scientifically. For a start, he used historical 
records to show how an elaborate series of cholera out-
breaks could be traced from India to France to England 
over the course of several centuries. By illustrating how 
much damage these epidemics wrought, he set up the 
scientific community for his next important point: 
the descendant of the same epidemic was present in 
London, right then and there. In 1854, he proved that 
one recurrent outbreak could be traced to a public well 
called the Broad Street Pump — a rather fashionable 
Nosferatu gathering place in its day — and the reason 
could be traced to nearby privy vaults — remember 
those? — that had contaminated the water supply.
Snow was very methodical about his reports, but 
the English government panicked. So did many of 
the governments on the Continent; in many cities, 
European kine were required by law to release their 
waste into the nearest drainage system. Unfortunately, 
most humans, like most neonate Nosferatu, don’t 
know the difference between the sewer system and 
the drainage system used for storm run-off. Remember 
what I told you about the Romans keeping the Cloaca 
Maxima separate from the waterways they used for their 
bath water? Remember the outbreaks of disease that 
happened when those tunnels broke down? History, as 
it so often does, repeated itself.
The results were disastrous. The Thames was already 
turning into one big churning toilet, but because London’s 
sewers weren’t up to snuff, a reek filled the streets. One 
summer, someone finally had to put soaking rags over the 
windows of Parliament to keep out the smell. Okay, so 
maybe some of us Nosferatu got into the act and flooded 
the city with stench as well. We wanted more sewers, after 
all! As a result, the citizens of London began excavating a 
vastly improved sewer system, and we... well... we moved 
in to make sure it got built correctly. All thanks to John 
Snow starting a public panic.
As a result, our labyrinths have grown more over 
the last century than they had in the two thousand 
years before Mr. Snow. Despite all the evolution going 
on above ground, indoor plumbing didn’t change all 
that much between the Roman Empire and the 19th 
century. But once we started flooding the cities of kine 
with the aroma we know so well, even the Camarilla 
princes started to take us seriously.
Modern Sewage
Now that I’ve gotten your attention, I can at last 
tell you more about my favorite topic. Don’t worry, 
I’ll keep it brief. Many vampires who have never been 
below ground, including some in our own clan (ahem!) 
mistakenly think that all sewers are solely constructed for 
the disposal of filth and feces and that all of them harbor 
the same horrific stench. However, sewers generally fall 
into two categories: domestic (or industrial) sewers and 
storm sewers. The first deals principally with waste; the 
second is important in diverting the flow of water. 
Some cities choose to combine the two systems, which 
is certainly less expensive, but the largest cities must keep 
them separate to manage them effectively. It’s possible to 
send all of these fluids through the local treatment plant, 
but many systems have enough difficulty trying to process 
sewage without having to work overtime every time the 
city is besieged by rain. Many cities ensure that their sewage 
water never mingles with the storm sewers used to drain 
the city streets during rainstorms and floods. This means 
that it’s possible to travel beneath a city without perpetu-
ally being hip-deep in feces.
And, of course, the Nosferatu below ground do 
more than “supervise” subterranean construction. 
There’s horticulture, too. If you manage to stick around 
this Hosting for an extra night or two, I’ll invite you 
down to the local fungal chamber to see what the 
brood has been doing down there. Some of you have 
already heard stories about Nosferatu deep underground 
pursuing bizarre horticultural experiments, creating a 


Chapter One: Legends and History
29
A Poorly Chosen Tale
Alexander Ruxard continues:
Before we leave the 19th century entirely, though, 
there are a few more topics I much touch upon briefly. For 
instance, there is the American Civil War, or the “War 
Between the States,” as some of my colleagues would 
characterize it. Oral traditions confirm the existence 
of several broods of Nosferatu in the South during the 
Civil War. Some of the most outspoken among the clan 
harbored a growing contempt toward slavery in human 
society. This included scorn for the very casual attitude 
many Southern Kindred had toward their ghouls, many 
of which were former slaves. These ghouls were treated 
only slightly better than animals, and many of the 
Kindred who yet valued their humanitas found such 
practices particularly galling.
These same vampires now take credit for the “under-
ground” that helped liberate slaves throughout the South. 
Allegedly, several Rats worked together to smuggle cursed 
ghouls and human slaves out of the domains of degenerate 
Southern Cainites. Some of the humans they saved were 
ideal candidates for the Embrace. Thus, during this time, 
the number of Kindred taken from slave stock increased 
throughout the United States. Ghouls rewarded with the 
Embrace, escaped slaves and freed slaves introduced new 
cultures into our clan. 
From the back of the room, a strange growling noise 
begins to echo through the chamber....
One of the largest broods moved not to the North, 
but to the swampland of Louisiana, creating a cult in the 
depths of the Mississippi Delta. I should refer briefly to 
one of the most notable of these Kindred, a Nosferatu 
Bestial known as “Alligator Man.” You have heard of 
him, have you not? He has hidden in the bayou for cen-
turies, surrounding himself with alligators of remarkable 
size and strength. Although some would dismiss him as 
legend, he sleeps beneath the turbid waters, employing 
his reptilian allies as his eyes and ears. Perhaps in this 
we may find some connection to our Sabbat colleague’s 
tales of the “manitou”?
Ah! And if I am to speak of the 19th century, I 
have neglected to mention the continent of Africa at 
all! Return with me back to the Victorian age, when 
European explorers, scientists and ethnologists ravished 
the continent of Africa. Travelers returning from African 
expeditions relate tales of tribes who worshipped the 
Nosferatu, degenerate villagers who gladly offered up 
their blood in unspeakable rites to sate the appetites of 
such devils. I am told that they remained unseen, acting 
as gods for these primitives.
Of course, when European explorers began to tame 
the “dark continent,” these monsters retreated further 
wide array of fungi, spores, slimes and molds. While 
this is certainly entertaining, it’s also quite practical. 
Microorganisms and bacterial slime are essential for 
treating and purifying water. That’s the cutting edge 
of waste water management: choosing the right mix 
of organic chemicals to keep purifying the fluids we 
trudge through each day.
Of course, some of us who specialize in sewage 
management have been noticing that a lot of the water 
treatment has been screwed up. The level of toxicity in 
the sewers has been increasing; I overheard a Lupine 
talking about “worm-taint” in the sewers, and it’s got 
me worried too. But I’m not an expert in such things.…
The Modern Nosferatu
Alexander Ruxard, our academic, intervenes:
WELL DONE! You’ve brought us up to the dawn of 
the modern age. Now, we’ve given quite enough time 
to this fellow and his talk of privy vaults and storm 
sewers, but we’ve neglected much of the actual history 
of this time. We’ve certainly maligned the mass media 
for killing off storytelling, yet I should also point out 
that it has actually served to promote our clan’s image. 
Before we conclude our Hosting of historians, I’d like to 
comment upon a certain cinematic treatment that was 
important during this time. The one image for which 
the Nosferatu are best known — in the world of the 
kine — is of the actor Max Schreck in a 1921 silent film. 
When Bram Stoker’s Dracula was released in 1897, 
it romanticized the legend of the vampire throughout 
Europe and America. At first, many Kindred were 
horrified, certain that this novel would shatter the 
Masquerade, but over time, it did precisely the opposite, 
presenting a series of lies that would allow the Kindred 
to hide in plain sight. Once the initial scandal passed, 
various Camarilla clans become envious, even jealous, 
of the Tzimisce for being able to whitewash their history 
so swiftly. The result was a long serious of imitations, 
particularly after the invention of motion pictures.
In the early 1920s, the German director F.W. Murnau 
attempted to make the first film adaptation of Stoker’s 
novel. The plot was only loosely based on the novel, 
but it was similar enough that Bram Stoker’s estate was 
horrified. A lawsuit followed. By the time the film was 
released, the name had been changed. The original 
portrayal of Dracula was replaced with a vampire that 
looked singularly familiar to many Camarilla vampires. 
An actor named Max Schreck captured the essence of 
the most infamous of the seven clans, and by the time 
the legal dispute was settled, the film had a new name, 
one that would spread the name Nosferatu almost as far 
as that of Dracula himself.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
30
into the wilderness, taking their devout followers with 
them. Legend has it that the eldest of these creatures 
lived in a vast series of underground caverns, surrounded 
by the wealth he had gathered from his vampiric de-
scendants.… This Methuselah hoarded his wealth like 
a veritable Solomon... leading to the legends of “King 
Solomon’s Mines”.… 
An African Nosferatu fights off frenzy:
ENOUGH! I’ve heard you babbling about the history 
of “our kind,” but your Hosting has neglected to mention 
about HALF OF THE PLANET! I’ve had enough shit for 
tonight — your hospitality in this cesspool is bad enough, 
but listening to this is more than I can stomach! Old 
World and New World? You know nothing of Africa. I 
will explain. Yes, that’s right, now that you can see me, 
you can tell I’m not as pale as you. Congratulations, you’ve 
flushed out the colored Nosferatu at your little Hosting. 
The least you can do after being so rude is listen to me 
tell you the real history of the Nosferatu....
Nosferatu Kingdoms 
of Africa
You’ve done an admirable job of rewriting history, 
but because most of you kowtow to the lords of the 
Camarilla, I don’t think you can see much farther than 
Europe and North America. Ancient vampires didn’t just 
feed off cities in those places; they sired childer all over 
the world. Maybe the other vampires felt safest in filth-
dens like Rome, Greece and Carthage, but the Nosferatu 
who skulked around those empires deserved what they 
got — existing at the bottom of the food chain. Not all 
of us were content to cower in the Cloaca Maxima. In 
other parts of the world — realms the other societies 
of vampires rejected — we found a much better way of 
life. Nosferatu thrive in all the forgotten and abandoned 
places of the world. In Ancient Rome, you cowered in 
the sewers, but in Africa, we were once kings.
We were the dyulamansa, the Hidden Kings. We 
never deigned to rule the human race; we merely sup-
ported those who did. As long as empires prospered, as 
long as the trade routes carried slaves, salt, ivory and gold 
from tribe to tribe, our herds of kine were healthy. Dyula, 
vampires, roamed the wilderness of Africa protecting 
these caravans, trading stories and blood as we went. 
Gangrel wandered with us, as did other clans that have 
since passed from the world. Because few of your Kindred 
knew the secret ways and sacred paths that led across the 
vast Sahara, we had remained isolated from your Tradi-
tions, your precepts and your culture since the dawn of 
history. By the time your European explorers came into 
the heart of Africa, the dyulamansa had already been 
there for millennia, building a kingdom unto ourselves.
Camarilla Bias
The Camarilla began in Europe, and in 
many ways, its always been a very Eurocentric 
society. Listen to the old histories of the Kindred, 
and you’ll find that many of them are simply 
chronicling of events of the so-called “Old 
World” and “New World.” The Kindred are only 
just starting to acknowledge — especially after 
their encounters with the Kuei-jin of the Far 
East — that vampires have existed throughout 
the world, not just in the cradle of what they 
deem “civilization.”
History reflects the biases of those who 
compose it, and this is just as true for the Ca-
marilla as any other society. In most of these 
sagas, “uncivilized” realms didn’t really exist 
until European explorers added them to their 
maps. The Kindred and Cainites of Europe were 
often close behind, bringing their Traditions 
with them. Yet for them, the most amazing 
discovery was that wherever they thought they 
arrived first, other vampires were already there. 
Although the Camarilla is still loathe to admit 
it, paynim vampires were quite capable of devel-
oping their own civilizations without following 
the traditional methods of European Kindred.
Autarkis vampires were also common 
throughout these empires. European vampires 
who rejected the traditions of their elders had 
a strong motivation to leave the worlds they 
knew and explore the unknown. Nosferatu and 
Gangrel were often the most adventurous in 
this regard. While Gangrel are naturally prone 
to wander far from the safest domains of the 
Kindred, Nosferatu often fled to the “forgotten” 
corners of the world out of circumstance. The 
founder of the clan stalked the greatest monsters 
of the world, after all, and thus, his descendants 
understand the Disciplines of Animalism and 
Obfuscate well enough to explore where other 
Cainites fear to tread. Since Methuselahs were 
drawn to places like Rome, Greece and even 
Carthage, Nosferatu’s descendants traveling far 
from “Western Civilization” was a simple survival 
instinct. The result was a series of colonies, 
broods and empires hiding around the world, 
including (as we’ll soon unveil) the depths of 
the African continent.


Chapter One: Legends and History
31
The history of the Camarilla is the history of the 
West; it is not the history of my African ancestors. Far 
to the north, you hid in kingdoms carved beneath the 
ground, but our broods had no reason to hide. The 
Nosferatu walked among men, unchallenged by the ar-
rogance of other clans. You have spoken of one African 
empire, in ancient Egypt, but most of you have never 
heard of the other kingdoms we guarded in the night. 
I shall speak of the generous empire of Ghana and the 
now-ruined acropolis of Mwanamutapa. Our empires 
had many names: Kanem-Bornu, Mali, Songhai of 
Gao, Mogadishu and Mombasa. Our populace included 
Nosferatu who had fled the world of European Cainites, 
outcasts who found exile in vast African kingdoms far 
from the madness of your princes, primogen, prisci and 
archbishops. Dyulamansa rulers were known by many 
titles in many empires — kaya maghan, ghana, mais, 
chiroma, galadina — by whatever title we assumed, we 
helped build the vast Nosferatu kingdoms of Africa. 
Early Civilizations
The beginning of my story would sound surpris-
ingly familiar to your autarkis storyteller. It does not 
begin with Garden of Eden; it has no Adam and Eve, 
no Caine and Abel. The kine on which we feed today 
are the products of millions of years of evolution. If the 
current theories are right, the first human herds lived 
in Africa. Tell all the legends you want — in Southern 
Africa, there’s evidence of Australopithecus, the oldest 
known hominid, living there over eight million years 
ago. The first Homo sapiens lived in Africa between 500 
and 300 thousand years ago. Not long after that, there 
were several different African races living across the 
continent, herds of kine just waiting for someone to 
prey upon them. As they say in my brood, if there was 
a first vampire, Caine was probably black.
When the European kine wrote their history, they 
considered Africa chaotic and uncivilized, largely 
because they didn’t understand its culture or history. 
At the end of the 19th century, for instance, European 
historians had a mania for ancient Egypt, but they wrote 
about it as though it wasn’t a part of Africa at all! 
Hardly surprising. Are you familiar with the “Ham-
itic Hypothesis?” In 1929, an American scholar claimed 
that any advance in African civilization was clearly the 
result of intrusion from the North. According to this 
worthy, all of African history was one long period of 
savagery and chaos, interrupted only by the introduc-
tion of new ideas from an early European race called 
the Hamites. Of course, the idea has long since been 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
32
rejected. Such prejudice against race and skin color 
seems even more absurd to me now, especially after 
my appearance has been ravaged by Nosferatu’s curse. 
Yet doesn’t it seem equally odd that so many Kindred 
claim that human civilization couldn’t progress without 
their help, either?
Rising from the Nile
At least you’ve attempted to mention the Egyptians. 
Prior to 10,000 years ago, the lands that would be Egypt 
were buried beneath the Nile, along with the series of 
marshes, swamps and lakes that surrounded it. It is rumored 
that one of the eldest Nosferatu Methuselahs hid his 
haven deep beneath these waters, surrounded by reverent 
and obedient reptilian ghouls. He believed himself safe 
from the depredations of Nictuku, until he noticed in his 
torpid state that the land was gradually rising from the 
water, bringing his body closer to the rays of the sun! This 
Ancient grew horrified to see his underwater kingdom 
shrink day by day, but as the human farmers learned to 
cultivate the lands around his river, he awoke from his 
slumber and spawned broods of Nosferatu to protect 
him. His childer fed off the blood of these farmers, just 
as they fed off the lands of his domain. 
The history your storyteller has given is mostly cor-
rect — not a bad job for a glorified plumber! You already 
know the tale of the two bloodlines, one serving Set and 
the other serving Osiris, waging war though their human 
servants. A fine story, even if it isn’t true. Yet there are 
also legends of Nosferatu in these pharaonic kingdoms, 
stalking unseen as they fed and returning to the waters 
of the Nile before the rising of the sun. The Egyptian 
Nosferatu betrayed secrets to both sides of the conflict 
between the Setites and Children of Osiris. They had 
to because their ancient progenitor longed to conquer 
both races and regain control of his domains.
Yet there was also civilization outside of Egypt. We 
were much stronger further south. In Darfur, Kush and 
the other lands of Abyssinia, we guarded and instructed 
the chieftains and elders of African tribes. You call our 
activities the work of “cults,” but we saw our duties as 
sacred. Kept unseen by the powers of the Blood, we often 
played a role somewhere between that of an ancestor, 
an elder and a guardian spirit. The “hidden kings” of 
these tribes saw that tradition was upheld and observed, 
and unseen, we made sure the storytellers who repeated 
the legends of our people remembered them exactly. 
This is part of the origin of Nosferatu storytelling: 
We didn’t start the practice to pass time in city sewers 
but, instead, to preserve the heritage of our herds. I 
know we are of the same Blood, for the Nosferatu of 
the Camarilla and Sabbat also know the importance of 
oral tradition. Loremasters would offer up tales before 
their unseen ancestors, while further to the south, in 
the swamps and marshes of the Sudd-land, emissaries 
of our broods would gather before our elders, trading 
blood and stories as we would for generations to come.
Unification and Downfall
The mortal history is well known: The Egyptian 
Empire originally consisted of two states, one along 
the Nile and the other within the Delta. Then, in 3200 
B.C., one king united both empires, assuming a double-
crown that included the likenesses of the cobra of Lower 
Egypt and the vulture of Upper Egypt. The legacy that 
followed endured for a thousand years — a rather stable 
foundation for the development of Nosferatu tradition. 
In the history of the unseen, our culture developed 
such traditions as respect for the wisdom of elders, the 
importance of working in broods and the practice of 
hosting emissaries from other broods.
As Egyptian traders began to carry goods further 
south, the Cainites of Africa learned to take advantage 
of their activities. Brother Gangrel first learned how to 
feed from humans traveling along trade routes, since he 
could sleep within the earth nearly anywhere during 
the day, no matter how long a caravan’s journey was. 
Nosferatu had a harder time on such journeys, but as 
the hunters they were, they went into the night un-
afraid. You may notice that many regular trade routes 
take advantage of rivers and other bodies of water — a 
rather convenient practice arising from our necessity 
for hiding places along such routes. In more remote 
regions, ghouled porters, askaris or animals would carry 
our slumbering bodies by day, and we would feed from 
them at night. In this way, we visited Nosferatu living 
even further from Egypt, solitary monsters who preferred 
to remain far from the cities of men, but still hungered 
for stories and news of other broods.
As these broods migrated, they hunted from sub-
terranean caverns where they could gather and stalk 
in their true forms. Legends tell us that the Ancients 
of our clan commanded the very shape and substance 
of the earth, collapsing vast caves and caverns for the 
benefit of our descendants. Who are we to disagree if 
we do not know what the land looked like before these 
upheavals? A few unusual legends tell of the Song in the 
Dark, a psychic ability used to command vast subter-
ranean creatures far older than our own kind to create 
for us vast havens beneath the earth. 
Unfortunately, even if we possessed such occult pow-
ers, we could not roam as freely as the Gangrel, and over 
time, this limited our willingness to venture beyond our 
kingdoms. As time passed, one barrier deterred us from 
traveling to the north of Africa more than any other: the 


Chapter One: Legends and History
33
vast Sahara. Covering one-fifth of the continent, it kept 
our kingdoms isolated from the European societies of 
vampires, as much to our advantage as to our detriment.
The Ventrue may yearn for the glories of Rome, 
and Brujah still mourn the conquest of Carthage, but 
the eldest Nosferatu of Africa repeat legends of ancient 
Egypt. As hidden kings, we supported the reign of the 
pharaohs. Some elders claim we even helped supervise 
the construction of monuments to them. I find this 
somewhat incredible, but Nosferatu did grant us the 
strength of our Blood so that we could help build. I am 
told that in the seventh century B.C., when the Pharaoh 
Cheops ordered the construction of his Great Pyramid, 
Nosferatu ghouls were ready to lend their aid. Again, I 
personally find these tales far-fetched, but they do serve 
as inspiration for our childer to learn the arts of subter-
ranean construction and the Discipline of Potence. If 
the Ancients assisted with one of the greatest wonders 
of the Western World, why should we not follow their 
example? We had no princes or harpies to teach us 
shame. We were hideous, but with our curse came that 
hideous strength that lies within our Blood.
The empire’s downfall came from the Assyrians to 
the east and the Kushites to the south. I would like to 
say that the Methuselahs who slept beneath the turgid 
swamps of the Sudd-land commanded this, yet it is not 
our way to take credit for what the kine have done. 
Egyptian soldiers lost battles because Assyrian iron had 
a distinct advantage over Egyptian bronze; the legend-
ary “four shadowy kings of Tanis” our Loremasters extol 
tore apart the secret societies of the pharaonic dynasty; 
the Kushites we watched over unseen exploited both of 
these trends. For two centuries, Kushite and Egyptian 
culture intermixed, and the age of the pharaohs came 
to an end. Of course, the influence of the Nosferatu 
kingdoms of Africa did not.
Carthage
North of the Sudan, beyond the Sahara, the kine of 
Northern Africa had their own epic accomplishments. 
Camarilla and Sabbat history both speak of Carthage, 
but only as a conquered kingdom. Above ground, the 
Ventrue have spoken in their sagas over and over of 
how Rome defeated this vast empire in the Punic Wars. 
I surmise that it was not the collapse of Carthage itself 
that infuriates the Brujah elders — why would a neo-
nate care what happened in the middle of the second 
century A.D.? — it is the incessant gloating about this 
event millennia after it took place. 
The Phoenicians of Tyre founded Carthage in 814 
B.C. on the northern shore of Africa. Nestled in the 
center of the Gulf of Tunis on a triangular peninsula, 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
34
it was ideally situated for maritime commerce. Well 
protected and easily defensible, especially with the 
nearby citadel of Byrsa, it harbored the greatest fleets 
of the Western world. For Nosferatu, however, it was 
somewhat less than an ideal haven. Because there were 
few hiding places within the city, the broods had to 
make their home (once again) in the ocean surround-
ing Carthage, rising from the wine-dark sea at night to 
stalk the streets unseen. 
The Ventrue take credit for the greatest merchant 
empires, but it is by no means the only clan that un-
derstands how to gather wealth. Carthaginian Brujah 
hid in an empire that dominated trade throughout the 
Mediterranean. Then in the middle of the third century 
B.C., Carthage began to contest with Rome for control 
of seafaring trade. The result was the Punic Wars, lasting 
from the middle of the third century B.C. to the end of 
the second. In 146 B.C. the city was finally plundered 
and burned to the ground. Afterward, the Roman Empire 
forbade human habitation there. 
The Camarilla is quick to repeat what a tragedy 
this was for the Brujah of Northern Africa, but it wasn’t 
much easier for the Nosferatu watchers in the waters. 
Fortunately, about 25 years later, the Roman Senate 
decided to construct a colony on the original site of 
Carthage. The Brujah fumed, but the Nosferatu of 
Northern Africa held little objection. Rising from the 
waters, they soon gained some of the benefits of Roman 
civilization your plumber has already mentioned: storm 
drains, public baths, even an aqueduct for clan Host-
ings. The original colony failed, but Julius Caesar later 
sent a group of landless citizens there in 29 B.C. By 26 
B.C., the Emperor Augustus centered the administration 
that watched over the province of Africa in Carthage.
Roman Cainites soon found what cunning advisors 
the Nosferatu of Northern Africa could be in regards 
to expanding their empire. We wanted more trade to 
support our African kingdoms, and for the next seven 
centuries, we had it with the help of Roman Kindred. 
Of course, the city passed through several different rul-
ers over this time — the Vandals, the Byzantines and 
eventually the Arabs — but the maxim we repeat today 
was just as true then: The princes above ground may 
change, but the rulers of the underworld always remain. 
Freedom
The collapse of the Roman Empire was disastrous 
for the Cainites of Europe, but south of the Sahara, it 
had very little impact. Europe developed a feudal system 
of princes and domains to try to preserve civilization 
and withstand the Long Night, but throughout most of 
Africa, the idea just never caught on. The Brujah may 
have held a grudge about Carthage, but then again, most 
of them were dumb enough to stay around Europe for 
centuries afterward.
Forgive me, but so were many of the early European 
Nosferatu. Like the mortals of medieval Europe, the 
Nosferatu clung to ideas left from the Roman Empire. 
Because their sires spoke so magnificently of the Cloaca 
Maxima of Rome, they believed that Nosferatu had to 
remain content with the hidden places of a city, feeding 
off the poor, the destitute and the starving. The Nos-
feratu of Africa never learned such shame. Instead of 
hiding from European Cainites, we developed Nosferatu 
kingdoms hidden from the Europeans entirely.
Many Nosferatu, Gangrel and other vampires who 
didn’t want to contest for power with the European Me-
thuselahs and their minions kept moving south, deeper 
into Africa. Whether this was through choice or design 
is uncertain. Some of us believe that Methuselahs of 
our two clans (or possibly one of the Antediluvians) 
summoned us there. Most of us didn’t do this out of a 
rejection of European tradition. Our African traditions 
were merely different than the ones in Europe.
To this day, the culture of the Nosferatu remains 
different from the treachery of the other clans. Another 
Cainite culture spread across the land, one based on 
mutual respect for elders, the importance of passing 
down oral tradition and ukwangela, our version of 
hospitality and generosity. I see many of the same 
traits here at your Hosting tonight, but such displays 
are done furtively or secretly. We had no European 
Ventrue or Toreador to teach us to hide what we did. 
The African Nosferatu valued freedom, not only for 
themselves, but for the kine as well. As part of this, 
we never attempted to control human empires, merely 
encouraging them to grow so that we could feed well. 
Unlike much of the Camarilla over the past few cen-
turies, we never laid claim to the history of mankind; 
we skulked in the shadows of mankind’s history, sup-
porting the rulers and merchant kings that allowed 
our herds of kine to prosper.
While Europe decayed, trade routes continued 
to spread across Africa, bringing fresh blood into the 
continent’s dark heart. Muslim merchants sent their 
trading ships from settlements in India, Ceylon and 
Malaysia west along the eastern coast of Africa and 
east as far as China. Knowledge of the trade routes was 
essential for Nosferatu emissaries carrying news from 
brood to brood. By night, vampires stalked the trade 
ships unseen, and by day, they slept in the depths of 
the cargo holds. China remained a dangerous mystery 
to us, but wherever a solitary Nosferatu shunned the 


Chapter One: Legends and History
35
company of his own kind, there was a chance to spread 
our spawn further from the domains of the Europeans.
Berber traders also ventured across oceans of sand, 
bringing goods south across the Sahara and deep within 
the continent. While the Gangrel were far better suited 
to these caravans (which often traveled by night), we 
welcomed them into our broods’ domains, eager for any 
stories they brought with them. Oases and wells became 
essential to these trade routes; in the deepest ones, 
immortals slept, rising to feed from passing merchants.
Of course, Nosferatu kings felt safest in the largest 
concentrations of kine, and Africa had many thriving 
kingdoms from which to feed. The greatest succeeded 
because of their merchant caravans; the name most often 
used for the Nosferatu kings of Africa, the dyulamansa, 
is a term used to describe Muslim traders. We traded in 
merchandise; you trade in information; in this regard, 
we are not so different. African Gangrel felt at home 
along the trade routes, but in the cities of Africa, we 
were the strongest of the clans.
While the European Nosferatu of the Middle Ages 
fed off the outcast and impoverished, the African Nos-
feratu stalked the streets of the greatest cities in the 
world. Tales abound of their wealth and grandeur. In East 
Africa, the Kingdom of Kilwa was described by Muslim 
scholars as one of the most beautiful and well-constructed 
in the world, exceeding even the glorious cities of India 
and China. Medieval Timbuktu was regaled as a place 
of great learning, where merchants made more money 
from the sale of books than any other merchandise. 
While the European Cainites considered the entire 
continent a land of chaos lacking in civility, Nosferatu 
emissaries spread tales of cities that remained hidden 
from the West. Broods bled the kine of Gao, Bilma, 
Axum, Dongola, Sijilmasa, Katanga, Khami, Kukwa 
and countless other cities inland that the Cainites of 
Europe never knew... and still do not know. As today, 
so was it then: The Nosferatu succeed wherever they 
remain unseen. This was our age of empires.
African Empires
Human civilization in Africa prospered wherever 
trade routes succeeded. The first major empire was 
Ghana, which grew from the fourth century to the 
11th. From its capital at Kumbi Saleh, we watched 
the caravans head across the Sahara with gold, salt 
and slaves. The King of Ghana was renowned for his 
generosity, holding vast feasts for his visitors the likes 
of which they had never seen before. Clan Nosferatu 
has learned to extend such generosity to its own kind as 
well, welcoming those who have traveled great distances 
to trade stories and enjoy our hospitality.
Yes, I have mentioned trade in slaves. Although 
some human historians are loathe to admit it, slavery was 
practiced in Africa long before your American Civil War. 
Some revisionist historians are infuriated by this statement, 
but I know that it was an acceptable practice in many large 
empires. It was essential for supporting traveling dyula of 
African vampires. Nosferatu who fed from these herds 
had little objection to the practice. A rather grim in-
terpretation of African history, but a fitting one.
Over 10 million human souls were transported 
out of Africa prior to the 19th century, and with them 
came curious Nosferatu wanting to see the domains of 
Europe as well. What they found was a clan cowering 
from its lessers, hiding in sewers and caves and drainage 
tunnels. What they found was a system of princes and 
primogen lording over our brothers and sisters. Many 
of these emissaries turned around and started the long 
journey back to the African kingdoms. No doubt, some 
of them told outrageous tales about the dangers of the 
“dark continent,” if only to discourage the Cainites 
of Europe from finding out what a haven it was for us.
Camarilla vampires can speak for hours about 
France, England and Germany, but empires like Kanem-
Bornu have become a part of forgotten history. Because 
the Nosferatu and Gangrel — the two clans strongest 
in that empire — do not have as much influence over 
vampiric society, such legends have been neglected 
in many histories. Yet this empire surrounding Lake 
Chad supported entire generations of vampires for 
over a thousand years, well into the 17th century. At 
one point, the greatest emperor of Kanem-Bornu, Mai 
Idris Alooma, ruled over more territory than England’s 
Queen Elizabeth, watching over grasslands from Darfur 
to Hausaland, dispatching emissaries to Tripoli and Cairo 
and exchanging gifts with the Sultan of the Ottoman 
Empire. Yet to the Europeans, this empire remained 
hidden, a historical cipher.
The Camarilla waxed strong in the predominantly 
Christian nations, but its influence never spread far 
into the Middle East or south of the Sahara. Muslim 
Assamites were often demonized as threats to its stable 
society, and thus, Muslim Africa is rarely mentioned 
in the histories of our race. Yet two of the greatest 
empires that hosted broods of Nosferatu — the Mali 
Empire and the Songhai of Gao — thrived because of 
the strength of Islam. This common African religion 
helped unify vastly disparate cultures, forging stronger 
trade routes and cultural exchange. While there are 
certainly Muslim vampires in the Camarilla today, 
many of the sect’s Nosferatu have become martyrs for 
their faith. Even your oldest legend, that of the Curse 
of Caine, holds little meaning for them.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
36
I do not wish to present you with exhaustive tales 
of our past glory, but I shall also cite the example of 
the Mwanamutapa Empire, which endured for a thou-
sand years without the exploitation of the Camarilla. 
Throughout the entire time, African Nosferatu stalked 
the Great Zimbabwe ruins. We did not do this by forcing 
princes to bow before us, using our influence to affect 
the growth of cities or dominating rulers to obey our 
whims. As was our wont, we did it by silently lurking 
in the shadows, feeding only enough to survive and 
eagerly trading for information with the vampires who 
arrived in foreign caravans.
The Fall of Empires
Much of this African history is vastly outside the 
experience of the Camarilla Nosferatu. For you, in 
Europe, the Convention of Thorns in Silchester, Eng-
land was a crucial turning point in your history, but the 
dyulamansa of Africa — the outsiders of Clan Nosferatu, 
it would seem — never heard about the formation of the 
Camarilla until much later. Even European vampires 
had great difficulty making the long journey to the 
village of Thorns; there was no chance at all that any 
from our kingdoms would attend. We had no Inquisi-
tion to goad us into joining your society; in fact, many 
African cultures hold a great reverence for magic and 
the supernatural and thus had little reason to fear us.
Yet when the European traders first came to Africa, 
Camarilla vampires were quick to follow. The Portuguese 
arrived in the 15th century, wiping out the Mogadishu 
and Mombasa empires in their search for gold and 
ivory. And with them came the Spanish Ventrue, the 
Lasombra, the Camarilla Nosferatu and other “Kindred” 
asking for introductions to the princes of our domains 
and the primogen of our cities. This part of the history 
you have neglected to mention at all. The European 
Kindred were shocked to see how we conducted our 
affairs. The African Nosferatu, and the other Cainites 
of Africa, had no such traditions, and when you heard 
we were without the benefit of your great leadership, 
it was the beginning of the end. 
The Dutch arrived in Africa in the late 17th 
century — 1652, to be precise — and the result was a 
struggle well known to the Camarilla of Europe. Just as 
the white-skinned kine wanted to conquer and exploit 
their dark-skinned brothers, our Kindred “friends” ar-
rived, wanting to rule us and teach us their Traditions. 
They could not believe that the African Nosferatu had 
existed without their system of civilization for so long. 
They were amazed that there were Gangrel who did 
not know (or care) how to recite their lineage properly. 
With the growth of European settlements, the Camarilla 
came, ready to “accept” us into their sect. 
But we did not want to be like the Nosferatu of 
Europe. We did not want to lurk in sewers, to hide in 
rivers of filth, to feed off the poor and diseased, to disgust 
the “civilized” clans with our hideous appearances. We 
would have been content to remain hidden, but the 
Camarilla began to divide the territories of Africa into 
domains. The Tremere chose a pontifex who had never 
seen the continent to watch over African chantries that 
had not yet been formed. Our Kindred spoke of devel-
oping trade and industry, battened on the slave trade, 
and began carving out Camarilla territories by sinking 
their claws into the autarkis who would not submit. 
We fled further into the “dark heart” of Africa, but 
by then, you were determined to save us from ourselves. 
In the 19th century, Europe sent explorers to “discover” 
the wonders of our world. Curiously enough, the fact 
that there were already people living in these places did 
not diminish the importance of their discoveries; by 
their reckoning, they discovered the Mountains of the 
Moon, Victoria Falls and the source of the Nile. Just as 
Christian missionaries tried to “save” reverent Muslims 
and civilized pagans, Camarilla vampires were eager to 
teach us the true stories of Caine and the Antediluvians 
and “save” us from our Cainite heresies.
The European powers, aided by your Camarilla, 
then began to lay claim to our lands, our kingdoms, our 
continent. By 1884, they were well underway to claiming 
every territory on the map. By 1920, every square mile 
except for Liberia, Ethiopia and a few portions of South 
Africa were under “colonial protection.” It took decades 
for the countries they developed to become independent. 
By then, it was too late. The cities had princes to watch 
over our lands. Your history became the history of our 
clan, and the empires of Mwanamutapa and Ghana, of 
Kanem-Bornu and Songhai, became trivia — footnotes 
in history. Nineteenth-century historians — like your 
academician, Alexander Ruxard — were quick to dis-
miss the history of Africa as one of barbarism and chaos 
before the coming of the Europeans, before the African 
Nosferatu became the Camarilla’s burden.
You wonder why so many Gangrel have left this 
Camarilla of yours? I do not find the idea so outrageous. 
I need only remember the glory of looking out upon 
untamed wilderness from the acropolis of Zimbabwe, 
of the full moon gloriously rising outside my cave in 
Mwanamutapa, of the roiling waters of the Congo 
embracing me as I slept, hidden from the sun. Once, 
the Nosferatu shared all these lands, with the Gangrel 
and the other autarkis of Africa. Now the domain that 


Chapter One: Legends and History
37
has hosted me with its hospitality tonight is hidden in 
darkness, watered with rivers of urine and feces.
Now I see what I have been forced to join, what 
all of the Nosferatu have been forced to join. A pack of 
elders huddled in the stench of the sewers, reciting their 
history as if they had any pride left in their souls. This 
is not the clan I knew. This is not the sect I choose to 
support. You began by asking why we are all cowering 
in this sewer tunnel tonight? It is not because we have 
chosen to do so; it is because we have been forced to 
do so by your elders. I mouth my lineage for the princes 
of your cities, I obey your Traditions as I travel from 
time to time, I even try to understand the deranged 
philosophy of your enemies, the Sabbat. Yet I am still 
filled with shame, and my history serves as a reminder 
of what Clan Nosferatu has become.
Another Continent, 
Another Horror Story
A Brazilian Nosferatu concludes the evening’s festivities:
THE MORE I STUDY THE NOSFERATU, THE 
MORE MYSTERIES I UNCOVER. Your stories about 
Africa just confirm that. Just when I think I’ve uncovered 
a definitive truth about our clan, one of us finds a link 
to a Nosferatu who’s hidden himself even better than 
we have. The diversity of our clan is the biggest mystery 
of all. There are those among us who fear what they 
have become so much that they hide from everyone, 
including others of our kind. For all we know, some of 
them may be among us right now, watching and judging 
us for what we say. Sobering thought, isn’t it?
No matter where we go, there we are. As our Bestial 
friend has observed, when the Sabbat first traveled to 
North America, they were alarmed to find there were 
already exotic varieties of Nosferatu hiding in the 
wilderness. As our anachronistic dyulamansa has com-
mented, when the European Camarilla tried to help 
“civilize” the continent of Africa, they did not account 
for the African Nosferatu who had already developed 
their own civilization. Nosferatu himself was originally 
a hunter, and his descendants have gone out into the 
night unafraid of anything less monstrous than they 
are. Our clan is perhaps second only to the Gangrel in 
our love for the feral, untamed wild. 
And as for me — shall I tell you briefly of my story? 
I am from Brazil, and I also know of Nosferatu who hid 
from the depredations of their brothers and sisters in the 
depths of the chaotic, “uncivilized” world. As amazing as it 
may seem, my ancestors lost their domains to Kindred and 
Cainites on the other side of the planet. The Camarilla 
remembers the year when it was formed; I remember the 
year 1494 and the Treaty of Tordesillas. Diplomats acting 
on behalf of Portugal and Spain gathered to drink fine 
wine, flourish the ruffles of their collars and debate the 
future of the continent of South America. Emissaries of 
the two countries drew a line on a crude map (about 50 
degrees west longitude), deciding that Portugal would 
get the eastern portion of the continent, while Spain 
would get the rest.
When the Camarilla and Sabbat heard news of this, 
they too were eager to divide this brave New World be-
tween their two sects. Granted, the Camarilla and Sabbat 
Cainites were generally not as civil toward each other, but 
they still set upon a similar plan. A few wealthy princes in 
Portugal invested heavily in settling the northern coast, 
while Spanish Sabbat used what influence they could 
to receive fresh reports of explorers from their herds of 
kine. After European explorers had laid the foundation 
for settlements in the aptly misnamed “New World,” 
ambitious neonates would follow, helping to develop 
herds of kine for the next generation of Cainites. 
The mortal history that followed is straightforward 
and very relevant to the point I am about to make. In 
1498, Europeans first explored the interior of South 
America. Christopher Columbus — on his third voyage 
to the West — landed on near the mouth of the Orinoco 
River. A year later, Alonoso de Ojeda, a Spanish lieuten-
ant working for the navigator Amerigo Vespucci — and 
God knows what other secret patron — landed on the 
northern coast. Although the European Kindred knew 
nothing of the Gangrel, Nosferatu and other vampires 
who were already hidden there, they chose princes and 
elders to divide the domains of a continent they had 
never seen. Many who started the dangerous journey 
across the Atlantic received their titles long before they 
set foot in their new domains.
At the edge of the map, explorers would place a 
legend: Here There Be Monsters. And sure enough, 
when transplanted neonates began to feed upon the 
mortal settlers, there were Nosferatu already there, 
hiding and waiting. As happened with so many other 
places in the world, more European explorers and mer-
chants arrived — Francisco Pizarro in 1509, Jiminez de 
Quesada in 1538 and so on — and European vampires 
eager to claim new domains traveled in their wake. By 
the end of the 16th century, European settlers had laid 
the foundations of cities, and wealthy vampires used 
what influence they could to secure them.
The invaders’ interest intensified after the discovery of 
veins of gold and silver deep beneath the earth. This fervor 
did not abate when they learned that distant relatives of 
our clan also burrowed under there. The Nosferatu of the 
South American continent had remained undisturbed until 
the kine, whether motivated by mortal or unseen overlords, 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
38
began to descend into the earth for what wealth they 
could find. At the same time, the indigenous population 
was decimated by European diseases; those that survived 
were often forced into servitude. 
We didn’t have the strength to resist the Camarilla 
or the Sabbat; we crawled deeper into our domains as 
our herds were enslaved or destroyed, but within a cen-
tury, our territory was limited to the tunnels and sewers 
beneath the cities of the Camarilla and the Sabbat. Our 
legacy remained, as always, in slums, sewers and rivers 
of shit. You say you have chosen this fate, but I did not. 
We did not. Which leads me to wonder....
The Chamber of Horrors is Closing
...in the end, above ground you must have the Haves, 
pursuing pleasure and comfort and beauty, and below ground 
the Have-nots; the Workers getting continually adapted to 
the conditions of their labour.
— H.G. Wells, The Time Machine
By your standards, we were autarkis: unorganized 
vampires who refused to accede to the European invaders. 
Yet I wonder what would have happened if these outcasts 
actually got organized? They failed to do so then, but 
what if they did so today? You say that the autarkis are 
welcome among the Nosferatu, but you do not act in 
this manner. The Nosferatu were powerless to oppose 
your two sects spreading into Africa, into Arabia, into 
South America, into the so-called New World. Our 
culture was never your culture, yet with the support of 
your allies above ground, you forced us to submit.
My colleagues, you were astute to notice that our 
autarkis friend, who seemed to have such a hatred for 
The Book of Nod, has disappeared from the room. He is 
a coward. My friends, you are perhaps surprised to hear 
our African colleague regale us with stories of kingdoms 
the Nosferatu once supported... and the Camarilla de-
stroyed. My enemies, you can tell I carry little respect 
for the two sects you so religiously uphold, and you are 
perhaps surprised to see a third autarkis in your midst. 
You may be wondering: Are there more here tonight?
Listen very closely to the sounds in the tunnels 
surrounding you.
We have been hiding throughout the world. We have 
been, and we shall be again. You fear the Nictuku, but I 
tell you: You should fear us more. Or perhaps... we have 
already begun to work with them. Listen to the groaning of 
the ceiling. There! Can you hear the supports giving way? 


Chapter One: Legends and History
39
You feel the urge to flee, perhaps, yes? Do not bother. Do 
not bother triggering the explosive charges you have set 
up along the tunnels. They have already been disarmed. 
Do not bother running. You are already surrounded. 
Our evening of stories has come to an end. I hope 
that you are swift, for at least one of you must survive 
and remember. The legends of our clan... all the legends 
of our clan... must live on, passed from sire to childe. 
Tell the story of this warren, and remember.…
Our last storyteller vanishes. Fade to black, and 
exuent omnes.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
40


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
41
Chapter Two:  
Inside Clan  
Nosferatu
“I am not a human being! I am an animal!”
— The Penguin, Batman Returns
sible from the human race. Other vampires can walk 
among mortals freely at night, pretending to remain 
within human society, but the Nosferatu exist further 
outside of it than any other clan. Although they must 
occasionally disguise themselves as humans to survive, 
Nosferatu have no need to emulate human culture. In-
stead, they’ve cultivated their own culture, one uniquely 
alien. It’s spread like a fungus through the cities of the 
world, and like any really hardy mold, it thrives best 
where it can’t be seen.
Nosferatu exist in two worlds: the world above and 
the world below. Above ground, other vampires try to 
ensnare them in either the treacherous politics of the 
Camarilla or the ruthless competition of the Sabbat. 
Below ground, other Nosferatu speak of their kind as 
the most fraternal of the clans. They must all work 
together in order to survive, it is said, and thus, many 
impress upon their own kind their “obligations” to their 
clan — or, more precisely, one of the broods of Nosferatu 
that claims to act on the clan’s behalf.
There is a price for the power of Nosferatu’s Blood 
and his “gift” of immortality. Being trapped in the guise 
of a monster for all eternity is just the beginning. The 
ugliness of a Nosferatu isn’t just skin deep — so far, 
you’ve probably only seen the attractive side of the clan. 
Here’s a little experiment: Go out into the woods, 
far from any trace of human habitation, and look under 
a rock. Once you’re far away from the sounds of traffic 
and the sight of telephone lines, peek under a log, or, 
even better, flip over a dead animal with a stick. The 
little wriggly things you’ll find underneath will tend to 
go in one of two directions: up or down. Disturbing little 
nasties squirm up into the light, but the truly horrid 
things turn around and dig deeper.
Uncovering the truth behind Nosferatu society is 
rather like picking up that rock. Other vampires have 
a very distorted interpretation of the clan. They’ve 
seen what oozes up to the surface, wriggling into their 
convocations, ritae and observances. They’ve witnessed 
what rises from the sewers to skulk in the shadows of 
the nearest nightclub or the prince’s audience chamber. 
The Nosferatu, however, know that there are plenty of 
monstrous abominations that never rise to the surface. 
To track them down, we’ll have to turn away from 
what you’ve been watching with disgust so far... and 
dig a little deeper.
Let the other vampires play at being almost human. 
Sabbat Creeps, Camarilla Sewer Rats, those stinky guys 
over in the corner — no matter what you call them, 
the Nosferatu have distanced themselves as far as pos-


Clanbook: Nosferatu
42
You can look at the surface of their society, if you like, 
guessing what you can from the rumblings, bubblings 
and gaseous emissions you hear deep within. However, 
if you wish to truly immerse yourself in the role of one 
of these monsters, you must cast aside appearances and 
discover what’s roiling in the belly of the beast. Let’s 
cut the clan wide open — with surgical precision, if you 
like — and see what we can find inside Clan Nosferatu. 
The Nosferatu’s Chosen
A Nosferatu’s foulness develops long before his Em-
brace. One of the most important decisions a vampire 
makes during his immortal existence is the selection 
of his childer. Indeed, it can be argued that no two 
humans receive the Embrace for precisely the same 
reason, though the vampires of each clan display a few 
shared preferences. The Chosen — humans ideally 
suited to the curse of vampirism — often reflect their 
sires in some way: in temperament, in psychology or in 
traits the sire admires. Thus, a childe can be seen as a 
mirror to her sire. In the case of Nosferatu, it is a very 
disturbing image indeed.
For the Sewer Rats, the most common character-
istic shared among would-be childer is their alienation 
from human society. Even in life, Nosferatu Chosen are 
often physically, emotionally or psychologically scarred. 
Derelicts, the deformed, the autistic, the hopelessly 
antisocial and the criminally insane are all “attractive” 
candidates for the Embrace. There are practical reasons 
for this: Most humans do not have the fortitude to 
survive the transformation that results. Those who do 
must face contempt and isolation, sometimes for decades 
or even centuries at a time. Humans who have already 
endured lives of pain and suffering, on the other hand, 
are more likely to survive the ordeal. 
Fawning petitioners to the Nosferatu flatter them 
with lies, but Sewer Rats know the contempt in which 
they’re held. Such creatures are shunned, even among 
their own kind. If a human is chosen to endure immor-
tality with a face like a train wreck, an aroma cultivated 
in the deepest realms of the city sewers and a reputation 
even vermin would condemn, social sophistication is 
not a top priority. Romantic vampires may fool their 
victims into “choosing” the Embrace themselves, but 
Nosferatu rarely have this privilege. Pity, mercy, disgust 
or outright loathing are all typical motivations for turn-
ing a human into a Creep or a Sewer Rat.
Sometimes a sire chooses poorly. The transforma-
tion from human to monster is an arduous one. The 
torment can kill the victim, corrupt his soul or simply 
drive him insane. If this happens, his sire may simply 
abandon the childe in the worst part of town and 
scurry off to another city, leaving the poor bastard to 
suffer. Few princes have the resources to track down 
every “illegitimate” fledgling vampire skulking in the 
city sewers. Again, there are horrid little things that 
never rise to the surface. 
In Sabbat-held cities, flawed childer may be given 
a chance to survive their Creation Rites, but a sire can 
usually think of more practical ideas for what to do with 
them. For a start, rejected childer make excellent shock 
troops for crusades: Just drop them off in a Camarilla city, 
and their grotesque behavior usually strains the Masquer-
ade right away. Rejected Nosferatu are also routinely 
recruited for Sabbat fun and games — a really callous 
sire can make a whole evening out of slaying his childe.
As one might expect, there is an alternative to dredg-
ing the scum of human society for suitable candidates. 
Embracing a human who is actually attractive, popular 
or prosperous is one of the cruelest punishments a sire 
can inflict. Since vampirism is a curse, the Embrace may 
be performed for vindictive reasons, giving a would-be 
childe “a lesson he’ll never forget.” Neglecting to teach 
these victims the art of Obfuscate can force them to suf-
fer even more. The vain, the callous, the prideful — all 
are suitable recipients of Caine’s curse. While the most 
horrid examples go irrevocably, suicidally and delight-
fully mad, the few who survive may actually benefit from 
the experience. Formerly beautiful victims learn quickly 
not to judge anything based on its appearance — one of 
the most important lessons a neonate can learn when 
dealing with this clan.
Personal experience and professional skill are two 
other excellent reasons for enfolding someone in the 
Embrace. With the resources Nosferatu have at their 
disposal, there’s always a need for architects and engi-
neers who can help expand a city’s sewers, computer 
hackers who can gather information efficiently and 
illegally or career criminals who prefer to practice 
their trade in secret. Some sewer dwellers choose 
their childer hoping to create an empire beneath the 
city, gathering skills they think will be useful in their 
underground utopias. Broods of Nosferatu are often 
founded on such idealism.
Unfortunately, such schemes don’t always work. 
There is no guarantee that any victims Embraced into 
the clan will immediately serve their sires’ goals. Theo-
retically, blood bonds and brainwashing can ensure a 
childe will lend his skill to his sire’s demands for a while, 
but abused childer eventually rebel, finding a place that 
suits their own strange desires. For all the talk of clan 
unity, Nosferatu rarely force others of their kind to do 
anything. Existence is horrific enough without needing 
to emulate the treachery of the other clans.


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
43
An intelligent, cunning and resourceful Nosferatu 
can find a niche in just about any city in the civilized 
world. The Camarilla and the Sabbat eagerly accept 
vampires who are well practiced in performing their 
tasks unseen. As long as the Nosferatu keep upwind from 
the rest of the sect, the others don’t look too closely at 
what the Sewer Rats have unearthed.
The Embrace
The Nosferatu Embrace is a slow and agonizing 
experience, a monstrous transformation from a human 
being into a monster of an entirely different species. 
Other vampires may think that maintaining a human 
form and walking among mortals helps them preserve 
their humanity. The Nosferatu hold to no such pre-
tense. Of all the species of vampires, the Nosferatu 
are unquestionably the most alien, and a Nosferatu’s 
Embrace reinforces that mindset. Let the Toreador 
and Ventrue pretend to be blessed with immortality by 
their sires; the Nosferatu are far more likely to think of 
vampirism as a curse.
It begins with a Kiss: in this case, complete exsan-
guination. After a human victim has been drained of all 
its blood, one toxic drop of Nosferatu vitae is enough 
to pollute the entire body. The transformation takes 
almost a week to complete or even longer if the change 
is especially severe. As the body enters the first stages 
of living death, organs shrivel and veins harden. Any 
human blood ingested quickly transforms into a thick, 
bilious fluid — one tainted as much by the Curse of 
Caine as by an abundance of genetic waste. Constant 
pain twists the once-human face into a perpetual gri-
mace, creating constant agony. The only sensation that 
can block out this torment is an overwhelming thirst 
for human blood.
Within a matter of days, dead skin becomes coarse 
and stretches tightly across withering muscles. Old organs 
distend into sacs for storing vitae. The bruises endemic to 
rigor mortis develop on the flesh. Hair falls out in patches. 
The cartilage of the nose and ears collapse or distend. 
In some cases, the childe may adopt certain “signature 
deformities” of his sire as the hereditary curse is passed 
to the childe — not unlike, some scholars opine, the 
inheritance of original sin — but there is no guarantee 
what may befall a Nosferatu’s childe.
A kind Nosferatu will tend to his childe like a fever-
ish patient, watching the transformation with loving 
care and placing fresh blood for the victim to ingest. 
Such kindness is exceedingly rare. Cruel Sewer Rats 
record the experience on film or video, surround the 
childe with dozens of reflections of his new hideous form, 
lecture the childe on the reasons for his punishment 
or simply bury the victim to await his “rebirth.” While 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
44
other vampires may speculate why the line separating 
Camarilla Sewer Rats from Sabbat Creeps is so waver-
ingly thin, Nosferatu already know the most obvious 
one: The Creation Rites of the Sabbat are rarely more 
torturous than a Nosferatu’s Embrace.
By the end of the week, the victim’s very bones gnarl 
and warp. Any lingering similarity to human guise is 
vague at best. The resulting creature is no longer human 
— it is an entirely different species, divorced of mortal 
concerns. During the last stage of transformation, the 
skull assumes its final shape, elongating, flattening or 
caving in entirely. Many humans associate their face 
with their identity; this falsehood is the last thing to 
crumble during the metamorphosis. A fledgling vampire’s 
dead organs may twitch and shiver for weeks afterward 
while adjusting to the newly found form, but by then, 
the personal horror of utter alteration is complete.
Not everyone survives this cruel process. The most 
horrific changes occur not to the body but to the vic-
tim’s mind, inflicting such pain that they force a victim 
to the very limits of his fragile sanity. Weaker minds 
become even more monstrous than the bodies they 
inhabit. Such creatures become mindless brutes — in 
Camarilla society, it is a sire’s duty to hunt down and 
destroy such abominations. 
Sabbat vampires entertain the hope of reforming 
such wayward childer, subjecting them to further Cre-
ation Rites. The most monstrous creatures of all remain 
autarkis, skulking outside the boundaries of both Cama-
rilla and Sabbat society. These socially amoral failures 
then exact their rage upon human victims with wild 
abandon; spreading their suffering to others is only act 
that can give their damned eternity meaning. Camarilla 
convocations host the “saints” of Nosferatu society, the 
ones that endlessly reflect upon their sins, but far more 
sinister creatures remain in the shadows, hidden from 
the eyes of Camarilla and Sabbat vampires alike.
The Thousand Forms of Flesh
Flesh is weak; only by will may it be made strong. 
Some outsiders to Nosferatu society repeat clichés about 
Sewer Rats being “the most humane of vampires, despite 
their foul appearances.” In truth, Camarilla Nosferatu 
who learn to interact with the other five clans are just 
the most pleasant ones. They are but a brief glimpse of 
their Antediluvian’s eternal curse. No matter how much 
a Creep or Sewer Rat suffers, he’s probably seen others 
who’ve had it much worse. The underworlds of major 
cities are often haunted by vampires too grotesque or 
uncivilized to interact with the world above.
If a Nosferatu decides to maintain his humanity, 
it is because he has no doubt seen the alternative: an 
inexorable descent into utter abomination. Nosferatu 
can see their own ugliness quite clearly, both inside and 
out. By admitting how horrible they really are, many are 
able to escape the descent into truly monstrous behavior. 
The deeper one travels into the sewers, of course, the 
nastier the aroma gets. Hold your nose. We’re diving 
in to see what we can find.
Martyrs
The Embrace ends a victim’s life, tears him away from 
his friends and family, drastically alters his appearance and 
identity and, worst of all, forces him to watch the entire 
process. Humans sometimes say that suffering is good for 
the soul: If it is, then anyone who can survive the Embrace 
is a candidate for sainthood. A neonate Nosferatu who 
can avoid sinking to the depths of depravity must have 
something very strong in his psyche — sometimes it is 
nothing more than a noble cause or belief. Victims who 
manage to retain their human morality despite centuries 
of torment often come to consider their fate a punishment 
for the sins of their former lives; thus, other Nosferatu 
commonly refer to them as Martyrs.
By silently watching humanity from the shadows, 
Martyrs make a careful study of the human condition. 
To distract themselves from the horror of what they 
have become, they remain fascinated with humanity: 
human morals, human ethics and human failings. The 
most extreme watch over the weak, protect the in-
nocent or punish the unrighteous. Such efforts aren’t 
always fated to succeed, though; a Martyr, for all his 
fascination with the human world, is still a monster. 
No matter how careful he is, he may eventually slip up 
and fall prey to the Beast that dwells within his soul. 
He may even end up victimizing or feeding from the 
very humans he wants to protect. 
Martyrs are not easily fooled by appearances: After 
all, in human society, the most attractive mortals can 
also be the most decadent or degenerate. Martyred Nos-
feratu have a keen eye for moral failings in others and, 
despite their prudish behavior, are drawn toward finding 
it. The advisor hovering near the prince’s chambers, 
the crusader condemning the latest Sabbat crusade, 
the Noddist whispering rumors of Golconda — all of 
these creatures rationalize their activities by claiming 
to be martyrs to a cause. 
While a neonate Nosferatu of this type may be re-
sponsible for some of the most revolutionary changes in 
vampiric society, he may also be known as a simpering, 
obsequious, smelly, unwholesome pain in the ass. Crude 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
45
or bestial Nosferatu would just as soon flush them back 
from where they came. If a Martyr can remain true to 
his beliefs, however, he is worthy of great respect from 
vampires of any clan. Many of the most esteemed Nos-
feratu of vampiric history are martyrs for their beliefs; 
their histories reflect centuries of nobility, sacrifice and, 
ironically enough, humanity.
Cleopatras
Beauty’s only skin deep, but ugliness goes much 
deeper. While some Nosferatu struggle to remain hu-
mane, not all of them succeed. Their cursed state often 
spawns a festering hatred for all things beautiful. This 
resentment grows especially strong in Nosferatu who 
deal with Toreador and Tzimisce vampires, who often 
use the power of the Blood to achieve unearthly beauty. 
“Beautiful People” become these Nosferatu’s most hated 
enemies after the Embrace. Many Kindred can remember 
stories of mass-murders at beauty pageants, rampages in 
art galleries and other acts of revenge perpetrated by 
outraged Nosferatu. Yet even these extremes cannot 
compare to the most satisfying form of poetic justice: 
finding a beautiful, happy person and subjecting her to 
the horrors of a Nosferatu’s Embrace. 
Few sounds soothe the Beast like the screams of a 
beautiful creature in pain, the agonizing wail of a for-
mer Narcissus who realizes he’s been transformed into 
a hideous monster. Younger Nosferatu refer to such a 
victim as a “Cleopatra.” The name does not come from 
the annals of history, but from a more appropriate source: 
a classic film called Freaks. Cleopatra was a cinematic 
beauty, a vain trapeze artist who was grossly disfigured 
at the end of the film, when she was finally brought into 
the freaks’ dysfunctional and alien world.
Vain, petty humans usually snap under the strain 
of the metamorphosis, going irrevocably insane. 
Those who avoid suicide or self-destruction actually 
may be redeemed, becoming productive members of 
vampiric society. A few have actually recovered their 
humanity in the process, learning that their identity 
is shaped by more than mere appearance. Many do 
not — instead, they plead to learn to master the 
Discipline Mask of a Thousand Faces as quickly as 
possible. Once they are able to change their appear-
ance, they use the same tactics of manipulation they 
cultivated while they were alive. “Beauty is truth,” 
the poets opine, “and truth is beauty,” but for a jaded 
Cleopatra, immortality offers a chance to see the lies 
that lurk behind mere appearances.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
46
Fetid Little Creatures
Not every creature corrupted with Nosferatu 
blood survives the transformation that results. 
Some victims endure such severe changes that 
they cannot even pretend to be vaguely human 
afterward. The skeleton may erode; the eyes may 
wither; the arms and legs may warp to such an 
extreme that the resultant horror cannot even 
stand. As one might suspect, such abortive at-
tempts at the Embrace are rarely introduced to 
the local Camarilla prince. Miserable wretches 
who shouldn’t survive the Embrace are usually 
destroyed by their creators... usually, not always. 
Maternal instincts and fatherly love have been 
known to illicit sympathy for even the most 
abominable childer.
Freakishly fetid little creatures are sometimes 
nursed on blood and kept in a state of eternal death, 
if only to wallow in the filth of the local sewers. 
Such undead abortions are rarely given names, 
though they may find a home in a Canopic jar, a 
pool of bloodied water or a comfortable septic tank. 
It is common for them to die within the first few 
weeks after the Embrace, but the unfortunate few 
that survive remain hidden, unnoticed by even 
the rest of vampiric society.
Fagins
Does physical degeneracy spawn moral decay? Just 
because someone’s ugly, does that mean he’s corrupt? 
One of the most distasteful types of Nosferatu is the 
beast whose criminal attitudes are as twisted as his ap-
pearance. Sewer Rats have an attraction to the unsightly 
and horrific, and they sometimes recruit victims whose 
morals are the most disgusting aspect of their personality. 
Morally degenerate Nosferatu often develop blood cults 
of amoral servitors, fanatics who would risk their lives for 
one more taste of tainted vitae. A blood-addicted ghoul 
would do just about anything to help its master extend 
his influence in the underworld. 
In the Victorian Age, beasts of this sort were known 
as Fagins, named for the infamous villain in Oliver Twist 
who ensnared orphans in his web of crime. Victorian 
London once harbored “thieves’ citadels” where crimi-
nal gangs would hide in squalor; modern Fagins make 
their home in abandoned buildings or slum tenements. 
Criminal Nosferatu have no need of sewers; they thrive 
above ground in the “bad part of town,” surrounding 
themselves with human pawns. As long as they serve 
his will, he’ll use and discard them as he sees fit.


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
47
By recruiting a gang of ghouls, Fagins learn to exploit 
the desperate, the disadvantaged and the simply deplor-
able, thriving in a very different sort of “underworld.” 
They often have a certain theme to their cults: While 
one may string along a group of drug addicts, another 
may prefer transient spies, street kids or even prostitutes. 
Sewers may be useful for traveling unseen from one side 
of town to the other, but Fagins are just as comfortable in 
squalid, decaying neighborhoods above ground. Street-
savvy and sinister, they specialize in learning to pick up 
the “word on the street,” no matter how reprehensible 
or foul that language may be.
Leatherfaces
A few Nosferatu are so disturbed by their Embrace 
that they adapt fully to become absolutely inhuman. All 
vampires prey on humans, but disturbed Nosferatu like 
to play with their food, often by hacking it into tasty 
bite-sized chunks. In homage to the mutilated serial 
killer of Tobe Hooper’s The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, 
a killer of this kind is often known as a Leatherface.
This type of creature either inherits its hatred of hu-
man beings from its sire or develops murderous impulses 
after a particularly grisly Embrace. A Leatherface is a 
predator, an enemy of mankind, a serial killer or mass 
murderer in the guise of an immortal monster. It is no 
longer human — instead, it’s moved up to the top of 
the food chain. Most learn from the masters: watching 
slasher films, studying killers with high body counts 
and stalking suspected criminals are all useful training 
techniques. Why pretend to be human? It’s far more fun 
to wade through a sea of bodies and blood.
Nosferatu killers learn to maim and murder with 
the most savage, brutal weapons available. The tools 
of the Leatherface’s trade are well known to film buffs: 
the ice pick, the chain saw, the power drill and so on. 
Hunting often gets particularly messy. A Leatherface 
likes to stage every aspect of the experience just right, 
employing all the tricks of the craft: the rickety staircase 
in the basement, the lonely stretch of woods or the 
trap that will trip his victim while she’s running away. 
Cinematic clichés are a Leatherface’s bread and butter 
(or blood pudding, as the case may be).
While Martyrs are fascinated with the kindest and 
most civilized humans, Leatherfaces are intimately 
familiar with the most degenerate examples of human-
kind. The Leatherfaces’ morality cannot be defined in 
human terms; after all, deliberate murder ranks very low 
on the Hierarchy of Sins, preventing Leatherfaces from 
surviving the Path of Humanity for long. They can rarely 
endure the strict morality of the Camarilla, but then 
again, they are often far too independent to side with 
Leatherfaces and Split 
Personalities
The most contemptible variety of Leatherface 
not only hides his crimes from other vampires, 
but from himself as well. By rationalizing away his 
actions, actively denying his baser instincts and 
concealing a split personality, he can completely 
infiltrate Camarilla society without being aware of 
his own crimes. Beneath a pretense of martyrdom 
and humanity, Camarilla Leatherfaces slowly click 
off a body count any mass murderer would envy.
If the Storyteller allows this type of character, 
he may decide to let the Nosferatu hide his “ex-
tracurricular” activities from the other members 
of the coterie and himself. The Derangement 
Split Personality works beautifully for this pur-
pose. While the player is aware that a Camarilla 
Leatherface has a low Humanity or Path Rating, 
the character is completely unsuspecting. 
the Sabbat. They are most typically autarkis, rejecting 
all politics to further their own, very personal goals. 
Humane Nosferatu, especially within the Camarilla, 
consider Leatherfaces a disgrace to their own kind, mon-
sters that threaten the Masquerade and the survival of 
all Nosferatu. When evidence points to a Leatherface 
crashing into a Camarilla fiefdom, local Nosferatu may 
decide to band together to swiftly eliminate this beast or 
at least lead the chase in destroying it. Sabbat vampires, 
on the other hand, are eager to use these beasts as shock 
troops in their crusades. Although discretion prevents 
them from ever offering these creatures a home in a 
Sabbat-held city — even the Sword of Caine has to be 
discreet enough to survive — Sabbat Creeps marvel at 
such ruthlessly efficient killing machines.
Bestials
Once a Nosferatu’s metamorphosis is complete, 
he may decide to hide his face from society, vampiric 
or otherwise. Until the creature is ready to emerge 
from the shadows again, he may prefer the company 
of vermin, insects or animals to what presumably is his 
“own kind.” Nosferatu refer to these reclusive hermits 
as Bestials. When cornered and provoked, Bestials have 
been known to insist that they are not human anymore, 
merely animals of the basest variety. This self-pitying 
indulgence may last for decades or even centuries before 
the feral, skulking monster rises from the depths of the 
sewers to attempt interacting with its own kind again.
As one would expect, Bestials are masters of the 
Animalism Discipline and inspire loyalty in the swarms 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
48
that follow them. Even after they ally with other vampiric 
conspiracies, they still tend to their swarms of rats, hives 
of insects, packs of dogs or clutches of reptiles. They 
communicate in grunts, groans, wheezes, gestures and 
obscene gaseous emissions, sometimes because they have 
lost the capability for human speech. Picture a child 
raised by rats or alligators, perpetually surrounded by 
roiling, turgid rivers of shit. Bestials who are paranoid 
about legendary Nictuku build vast swarms to defend 
their favorite sleeping chambers.
When necessary, Bestials learn to interact with the 
world above ground by sending out animal messengers. 
The Animalism Discipline is essential to a Bestial’s 
survival, as it allows them to use various animals as 
their eyes and ears in the world above. It is, however, 
terribly addictive. Indulging too often jeopardizes their 
survival; it’s better to stay in one’s true form, no matter 
how unpleasant it may be.
Bestials’ presence slowly alters the temperament of 
their favorite creatures. Blood-addled animals weaned on 
Nosferatu vitae sometimes develop a hatred for human-
ity that mirrors the misanthropy of their masters. Most 
animals will not confront or harm humans unless they 
absolutely must, since violent behavior jeopardizes their 
survival. Animals who have prolonged exposure to a 
Bestial’s crude applications of the Animalism Discipline, 
on the other hand, cannot conceal their venomous 
disposition and are eager to make humans suffer as 
much as possible. For this reason, a Bestial cannot stay 
in one domain for too long; after a few years, incidents 
of violence will betray his presence. If the Bestial gives 
into temptation and creates a thriving spawning pool 
of animal servants, his critters’ appearance will be as 
abhorrent as their shocking behavior.
Bestials can’t hide forever, of course. Some learn in-
ner strength from their years of isolation and eventually 
decide to rise to the surface world. Since they like to 
surround themselves with other creatures, Bestials prefer 
to find a coterie or pack they can trust. Unfortunately, 
no matter how civil they try to be, Bestials can remain 
slightly feral for decades after they return to the world 
of the unliving. They revel in acting like monsters — 
they are more beasts than men. 
On the rare occasions that Bestials are sighted, other 
Kindred recoil at their obvious flaws. Reptilian skin, 
clawed paws, alligator mouths and four-legged gaits are 
all common deformities. Those that can walk on two legs 
are sometimes entrusted with patrolling the more remote 
realms of a Nosferatu kingdom, tending to the beasts that 
spawn there. Others remain beneath the Earth, surfacing 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
49
only to feed and watching the world above through the 
dark-adapted eyes of a thousand skulking beasts.
Skins
The opposite of Bestials, these Nosferatu prefer the 
Discipline of Obfuscate and all the supernatural disguises 
that come with it. Their immortality is based on a joke 
that never gets old: Humans are ugly on the inside and 
attractive on the outside, but there are worse monsters 
stalking among them in human form, mocking them 
in their midst. Nosferatu who specialize in impersonat-
ing humans are known among the clan as Skins. After 
developing an addiction to the Obfuscate Discipline, 
they become consummate actors, blending thoroughly 
with humans and using their own appearances against 
them. This places them on an even footing with other 
humans. Human monsters walk amongst mortals all 
the time... some are just better at disguising themselves 
than others. 
While such creatures may appear on the surface 
to be the most humane, they’re actually in the depths 
of denial, desperately trying to figure what they really 
are. Some cannot remember who they ever were. Many 
manufacture elaborate identities, impersonating elders, 
ducti, primogen or princes. Such elaborate façades 
are doomed to fail — it’s only a matter of time before 
someone sees through the disguise and is horrified by 
the face beneath the flesh. Then again, many vampires 
are known for their elaborate self-destructive schemes, 
deliberating destroying their unhappy existences with 
epic, tragic failures. If a Sewer Rat tries to use his su-
pernatural powers to overcome Nosferatu’s curse, after 
all, he deserves what he gets.
Elder Nosferatu who can “spot the Skins” may 
recruit them as expendable allies, spies who get a little 
too wrapped up in the roles they play. Neonates often 
go through a phase where abusing Obfuscate is a com-
mon practice; they eventually learn to use it sparingly 
(or not at all). Those who never grow out of this phase 
slowly go insane, unable to differentiate their alternate 
personas from their true identity. In this way, no mat-
ter how pretty they make their illusory faces, Skins are 
some of the most hideous Nosferatu of all.
One of the common variants on this theme is the 
neonate vampire who prefers to remain hidden as long 
as possible, fooling himself into thinking he’s “invisible.” 
Like the Martyr, he tries to develop an objective view 
of human culture; like the Leatherface, he gets off on 
lurking near potential victims; but more than any other 
similarity, like any other Skin, he’s assured that staying 
disguised in plain sight will help him survive. It will... 
but only so far. Obfuscated Nosferatu neonates forget 
that an observant vampire has ways to see through 
such disguises. Childer who succumb too readily to the 
easy way out — depending on Obfuscate all the time 
— eventually get caught one time to many, sometimes 
with fatal results.
While “invisible Skins” are particularly adept at 
gathering information — particularly for gathering 
whispered secrets from private conversations — they 
are just as expendable as fools who are too eager to don 
the Mask of a Thousand Faces. Neonates get a rush 
from being invisible, but the eldest Nosferatu learn to 
accept their curse, spending as much time as possible in 
monstrous forms. By eventually “shedding their skin,” 
Nosferatu learn to be proud of the curse their founding 
Antediluvian granted them.
Loremasters
The occult world is filled with mysteries and secrets. 
Few individuals can keep track of them all... save, per-
haps, learned masters of lore. An average Nosferatu can 
gather a few choice tidbits about whom the prince has 
been bleeding lately or which junk bond appeals a little 
too much to the Ventrue primogen. Gathering such 
information on a routine basis appeals to neonates, but 
elders tire of wading through such muck over and over 
again. There’s a much larger world outside the halls of 
the prince’s meeting chamber, and Loremasters spend 
eternity studying as much of it as possible.
Other supernatural societies often fascinate Lore-
masters far more than their own. While each clan has 
vampires claiming to claim this coveted title, Tremere and 
Nosferatu are often the most suited to it. Elders fascinated 
by occult lore commonly recruit neonate coteries to help 
them research such subjects firsthand. 
No matter where they get their information, Lo-
remasters speculate in matters esoteric. Because their 
trade is so specialized, they may know only a few others 
who trade in the same information. Such tightly knit 
conspiracies of experts disregard all boundaries of clan 
and sect: If a Camarilla Tremere finds out some esoteric 
fact about the Cathayans, for instance, he won’t forego 
the opportunity to trade secrets with a Sabbat Creep. 
These societies are also extremely insular, and the eldest 
members are cautious about trading outside the circle 
of conspirators they know. 
To maintain their “edge,” many Loremasters have 
been known to seed misinformation and misdirection 
in their accounts of other supernatural societies, passing 
them off as rumor and innuendo. One tidbit of infor-
mation may be precisely correct, but if it’s hidden in a 
morass of lies, it becomes somewhat incredible. Vampires 
outside this insular society expect Loremasters to fabricate 
stories just to spread confusion, making the truths they 
themselves hoard even more valuable. Thus, a neonate 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
50
should never take anything a learned master of lore states 
at face value; only another Loremaster is really able to 
evaluate whether the facts are absolutely true or another 
elaborate hoax. For more details, check out A Festering 
Heap of Game Mechanics at the end of this chapter.
Nosferatu Culture
Nosferatu culture spreads throughout a city like a 
disease, breeding in any place that’s moist and damp. 
It’s attracted to any dank, dark place where foul things 
flourish. Monstrous vampires skulk into sewers, trash 
heaps, abandoned buildings and hellish neighborhoods, 
drawn to realms that reflect their foul temperament. 
Since vampires don’t need to breathe, Nosferatu can 
also hide under large bodies of water... or other fluids. 
They live in a world of their own, abandoning Camarilla 
or Sabbat society from time to time to stew and brood 
in their own fetid aroma.
Vampires of other clans may think that the Nosferatu 
have been forced to live in such horrific conditions be-
cause the other Cainites and Kindred have forced them 
out of the better parts of town. Untrue. Contempt, like 
respect, is a two-way street. Nosferatu are often just as 
disgusted with vampiric society as the local Kindred 
are with them. Arrogant princes, tedious Elysia and 
treacherous politics — why bother? The Nosferatu 
have their own domains, their own politics and their 
own culture. While many neonates spend a great deal 
of time in Camarilla society, they also have access to 
another world hidden beneath the cities of mankind.
Ironically, Clan Nosferatu, the most antisocial of 
the vampire clans, has also developed a strong sense of 
community. Ostracism from vampires and mortals alike 
has forced them toward a certain amount of coopera-
tion. Like the misfits, fringe groups and outcasts of the 
human world, they find a certain amount of common 
ground, no matter what they may smell like. Let’s scrape 
off a sample and see what we can find.
Antisocial Society
Other vampiric societies promote social behavior; 
Nosferatu society is based instead on decidedly antisocial 
behavior. Crudity is one of the most commonly displayed 
Nosferatu traits. After all, when you’re utterly disgusted 
by your own appearance, there’s not much reason to be 
polite about unsightly odors, smells, gases and vapors. 
Neonate Nosferatu delight in trying to gross each other 
out, holding epic contests precisely for that purpose. 
Sewer Rats in particular take pleasure in disgusting 
other vampires; if the local Camarilla has trouble tol-
erating them, they’ll reciprocate by openly displaying 
their own brutish behavior, refusing to disguise who 
and what they really are. Crude displays also serve as a 
great psychological weapon. Kindred are far more likely 
to betray their secrets after their composure has been 
shaken by a particularly stunning display of grotesquerie.
As remarkable as it may seem, however, while 
Nosferatu may celebrate flatulence and stench, they 
have also learned to cultivate many finer qualities. First 
and foremost, Nosferatu culture values honesty. An 
information trader who lies to his own kind can ruin 
his reputation, cutting himself off from all sources of 
intelligence. Hypocrisy is despised just as much — while 
vampires of other clans may try to present themselves 
as creatures of beauty, Nosferatu cannot hide the fact 
that they are monsters and often revel in shame. 
Nosferatu honesty also includes a double standard. 
When dealing with vampires outside the Nosferatu’s “so-
ciety,” lying becomes socially acceptable: It is a weapon 
to use against vampires of other clans. Misinformation is 
revenge against Kindred who have treated the Nosferatu 
poorly. As the saying goes, “you get with you pay for,” 
and when other vampires reward the Nosferatu with 
treachery, providing dangerously misleading informa-
tion is the best form of revenge.
Another hallmark of the clan is its legendary cyni-
cism. Since Nosferatu are often outsiders to many of the 
Camarilla’s activities, they often believe they have a very 
objective view of its failings. Even Nosferatu who are 
very actively involved in the activities of their sect tend 
to be grim realists. When you’re used to looking at the 
world through a sewer grate, existence can become very 
bleak. Those who have become bitter over Nosferatu’s 
curse tend to see flaws and failings in everything around 
them. Just as they won’t hesitate to let everyone see 
their deformities, smell their aroma and witness their 
tragic fate, the average Nosferatu has little reason not 
to shock other vampires with something even more 
repulsive: the ugly truth.
Respect is the final and most critical element of 
Nosferatu culture. Kindred who scorn the Nosferatu 
should be treated with disdain; Cainites who treat 
them as equals are worthy of an edge in the informa-
tion trade. Because Nosferatu are not easily fooled by 
appearances, if an obsequious petitioner of the clan is 
obviously fawning to get what he wants, he deserves a 
reciprocal amount of deception and deceit. 
Among their own kind, Nosferatu particularly re-
spect the elders of their clan and show their respect in a 
way that seems alien to many other vampires. Status and 
age are not social weapons used to bludgeon neonates 
into submission. Instead, neonates may choose whether 
to recognize the culture of Nosferatu society or reject 
it utterly. Those who refuse to recognize the wisdom of 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
51
their elders can take their chances surviving without 
the support of their clan. Wise neonates, however, learn 
from those who have survived immortality for centuries; 
thus, prestige is earned, not forced. Existence is pain, 
and Nosferatu who have conquered the worst of it are 
worthy of respect. Elder Nosferatu are often seen as 
revered sages, but they are far from draconian leaders 
— eternity is bad enough without making it worse for 
the youngest vampires.
Solitaries
Cities that flourish support thriving, virulent Nos-
feratu communities based on respect and cooperation, 
but sadly, they are the exception, not the rule. Despite 
the best efforts of the Camarilla and the Sabbat, most 
cities simply don’t have enough of a human population 
to support more than a handful of vampires. Only the 
largest cities are populous enough to support more than 
a few Nosferatu, and even then, there’s no guarantee 
of a Nosferatu primogen bothering with local politics. 
The sewers are full of enough crap without adding on 
layers and layers of politics as well. While other clans 
may enjoy the prestige of appointing a local “elder” to 
represent all of his consanguineous brethren, most Sewer 
Rats just don’t give a damn. You’re better off on your 
own — and the most antisocial Nosferatu who espouse 
this opinion become known as “Solitaries.”
Many Kindred praise the Camarilla as a complex, 
efficient and civilized society, but most Camarilla cities 
do not have more than one or two Nosferatu. Often, 
a solitary Nosferatu has the underworld all to himself. 
Solitaries in the smallest cities usually shun even their 
own kind, though they still interact with other vampires 
when necessary. Shambling horrors of this type trudge 
toward the sleaziest backwater burgs they can find, since 
these cities are the only places the Solitaries can con-
template their foul fate in absolute privacy. Solitaries 
are quite territorial about their domain and keep their 
contact with the rest of their sect as limited as possible. 
There is one exception to this xenophobia: When 
Nosferatu from other cities come to exchange informa-
tion, skulking Sewer Rats and solitary Creeps become 
models of decorum and hospitality, sparing no expense 
to impress their guests. This is not out of any pretense 
of civility — years of isolation leave them hungry for 
news from the outside world, news that can make the 
difference between comfortable isolation and sudden 
death at the talons of a supernatural threat.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
52
Broods
If a city is large enough to support more than one 
Nosferatu, politics creep in like mold on week-old 
cheese. In the Camarilla, the Nosferatu don’t hold 
formal gatherings to discuss their political diversions. 
Instead, they gather in loosely knit families known as 
broods. Because they’re shunned by many other vam-
pires, Nosferatu prefer the company of their own kind. 
Survival is also difficult for them — maintaining sewer 
systems, abandoned buildings and other hiding places 
often requires the assistance and influence of several 
vampires. Broods tend to form around a common goal, 
whether that’s expanding a branch of the sewers, ex-
ploiting the humans of a local slum, building a killer 
computer network or thoroughly scrounging the city 
dump. No matter how you disguise it, Nosferatu society 
cannot survive without the help of its broods.
Interacting with other Nosferatu is never forced. 
Much to the delight of the other Camarilla clans, Clan 
Nosferatu does not hold worldwide convocations, na-
tional meetings or regional assimilations. Instead, they 
keep their business up close and personal... and far, far 
downwind from the rest of the sect. One brood’s emis-
sary may travel far to attend another brood’s gathering, 
but he doesn’t need to make a massive masquerade ball 
out of the whole event. Instead, information is carried 
from one brood to another like cancer spreading from 
cell to cell. Why gather all the Nosferatu in one place? 
The smell would be unbearable.
Of course, no Nosferatu is ever under any obligation 
to join a brood or even interact with the nearest one. 
If a Sewer Rat vastly prefers the company of his coterie 
to Nosferatu gatherings, he has the right to make that 
choice. If he wants to avoid other vampires entirely, the 
other skulkers must respect his wishes. As long as this 
lone Rat can gather all the important information he 
needs on his own, there’s no real need for him to attend 
regular Camarilla functions. In addition, Nosferatu are 
remarkably apathetic about gaining “prestige” by making 
regular appearances at Camarilla events. Simply put, 
they have no real need to “see and be seen.” If you are 
too ashamed of who you are to interact with others, the 
rest of Clan Nosferatu can certainly empathize.
A Nosferatu who does choose to ally with a brood 
places himself at the disposal of his brothers and sisters. If 
a member of a brood neglects to help out his underground 
relations, there’s a price to pay. In any warren, there are 
a few (forgive the phrase) shit jobs that absolutely need 
to get done. The other members of the brood don’t have 
the authority to “punish” recalcitrant members, but 
they excel at guilt-tripping, tormenting, harassing and 
insulting their so-called friends into pulling their own 
weight. Working with a brood doesn’t prevent a Nosferatu 
from also joining a Camarilla coterie, but it does entail 
more work. As long as a Nosferatu’s responsibilities are 
fulfilled — sometimes with the assistance of members of 
his coterie — the little Rat is encouraged to go out and 
gather more muck, rumor and innuendo with his chums. 
Pooling resources can keep all the Nosferatu in a 
city from being left out to dry. Thanks to advances in 
technology, members of a brood can also actually decide 
never to see one another, but instead remain in “virtual” 
contact. Cell phones are a godsend to the Nosferatu; 
it’s easier to have a ghoul hand one to a contact above 
ground than risk being seen by mortals. While tunnels 
have a bad habit of interfering with such conversations, 
a few resourceful Nosferatu have figured out the value 
of scoring influence in the communications industry. 
Nosferatu hackers assembling in chat rooms, sewer 
crews constantly patrolling and maintaining their do-
mains, slumlords exploiting the poor — no matter what 
tactic unites the Nosferatu of a brood, the same social 
mechanisms apply. Broods endure like dysfunctional 
little families, keeping gangs of Nosferatu allied no 
matter how repulsive their relations may be. While they 
may bicker and squabble, the vampires of a brood need 
each other... if only to practice disgusting one another.
Coteries and Broods
Nosferatu characters, as they are commonly por-
trayed, exist in two worlds. Most belong to a coterie or 
pack — that is, a group of vampires from several dif-
ferent clans. Camarilla Nosferatu spend a fair amount 
of time consorting with other clans and even interact 
with them on a regular basis. Yet the Nosferatu also 
have many social functions removed from the rest of 
Camarilla society. A Nosferatu tends to feel pressure to 
place a local brood’s concerns above the needs of his 
coterie — this conflict in a chronicle makes for excellent 
stories, drama and, above all else, roleplaying.
As an example, when a Camarilla city has more than 
one Nosferatu, the local Sewer Rats will want copious 
information on what the various coteries are doing. If 
a Nosferatu character wants to trade information, the 
first bit of gossip up for bid is usually what the other 
vampires of his coterie have been up to. A Nosferatu 
doesn’t have to fall into this trap, but if the character 
takes the bait, he should be rewarded with all sorts of 
other facts gathered from the last Hosting. If the char-
acter refuses, he doesn’t have to receive all the benefits 
the local brood has to offer. He can skulk in the sewers, 
but he shouldn’t expect the clan to scurry to his beck 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
53
and call. Nosferatu who decide to share resources with 
broods tend to survive longer.
For Storytellers, there are several different ways 
to balance these two aspects of Nosferatu society. The 
Storyteller might decide to create a series of subplots 
based around a Sewer Rat’s connections to his brood. 
The conflict between the (often exaggerated) pressures 
a vampire receives from his clan and the obligations he 
has to his allies can easily become a recurrent theme. An 
alternative involves making the local brood so beastly 
that a coterie’s Nosferatu character would never get 
involved with it. A brood of Nosferatu may even serve 
as an excellent adversary, even if none of the characters 
are Camarilla Sewer Rats.
The final and most bizarre approach is running a 
“brood chronicle,” where all of the characters in the 
coterie are Nosferatu. The Storyteller proposes a rea-
son why all these Nosferatu would work together and 
then maps out a territory for them to muck around in. 
The obvious conflict in this type of chronicle involves 
contrasting the world above with the world below. 
Enough horrid things shamble underground to keep 
the brood busy for quite some time, but occasionally, 
the characters can rise to the surface world to trudge 
through Camarilla or Sabbat politics. Emissaries from 
other broods, Nictuku sightings, Leatherface rampages 
and the like round out this approach to the game. The 
underworld is waiting — you get to decide how deep 
you want to venture within it.
Hostings
If the local broods and Solitaries really need to get 
organized, there are ways to scrounge them together. Any 
Sewer Rat can offer to sponsor a gathering to discuss the 
latest crisis in the city. When a swarm of Nosferatu all ooze 
into the same place, it’s called a Hosting. The vampire 
who calls it is responsible for providing a time and place 
to meet, as well as the ambience such gatherings demand. 
As the monsters assemble, they regard each other with 
respect and gentility, showing a curiously high regard for 
hospitality. While other vampires may cynically regard 
this as affectation, it is quite sincere. Wading through 
shit is miserable enough; treating other Nosferatu like 
shit is simply unacceptable.
A Nosferatu may show up at another brood’s Host-
ing with little or no advance warning and without any 
advance permission. If he’s clever enough to find out 
where it is, he’s worthy enough to attend. Invitations to 
Hostings — whether delivered by shambling messengers 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
54
or on stained pieces of trash — are open to anyone 
who has the Nosferatu Antediluvian’s vitae coursing 
through his veins. 
On rare occasions, a Sabbat Nosferatu may attend 
a Hosting of Camarilla Nosferatu, or vice versa, though 
such meetings are performed with the utmost secrecy. 
Cooperation between different supernatural societies is 
often performed under the auspices of a temporary truce, 
and of course, such attempts don’t always work. Aside 
from affiliations of clan and sect, individuals are wildly 
unpredictable — Nosferatu risking journeys to dangerous 
domains of alien Hostings take great risks. When these 
alliances succeed, however, the results are worth it.
Prestige
Each Camarilla clan has its own social mechanisms for 
keeping track of vampiric prestige. If you choose to spend 
eternity making existence easier for other undead, you 
deserve to be recognized for it. When one of the Kindred 
achieves a goal that impresses everyone, word quickly 
spreads throughout the clan of his success: That vampire 
gains Prestige, with a capital “P”. When a vampire visits 
a city for the first time, there’s a chance that the members 
of his clan will formally welcome him because of his ac-
complishments. In a society based upon social interaction, 
the phrase “I know who you are” goes a long way.
While the Camarilla is in part based on such vain-
glorious boasting, Nosferatu just don’t get as worked up 
about it as many Toreador, Ventrue and Tremere do. 
Unlike most other clans, Nosferatu don’t compete with 
their own kind to see who is the most esteemed. They 
don’t slit each other’s throats for social approval, they 
don’t care who’s wealthiest or the most beautiful, and 
they don’t seek prestige for its own sake. As one would 
expect from a clan of shambling, hideous sewer-dwellers, 
egotism and vanity are not typical Nosferatu traits.
As one of the most unified clans, however, Clan 
Nosferatu does have many reasons to recognize its most 
prestigious members. Working for the good of the clan 
as a whole, creating something that makes the existence 
of all Nosferatu in a city more tolerable, expanding the 
local sewer systems and ensuring the survival of Nos-
feratu’s descendants are all accomplishments worthy of 
recognition. Although Sewer Rats cannot force their 
own kind to work with the clan, survival often depends 
on cooperation; thus, working on behalf of the clan is 
not mandatory, but it is recognized and rewarded.
Actually accumulating accolades doesn’t depend on 
age or political titles; unlike most other clans, Nosferatu 
don’t award prestige to vampires just because they’re old. 
However, Nosferatu are often recognized for surviving 
under adverse circumstances or fighting for causes they 
believe are just. A Martyr, for instance, who has held 
to his beliefs despite the scorn and censure of others 
for centuries is certain to gain the admiration of other 
vampires. Since no Nosferatu is able to force another 
one to obey, status itself is never forced or demanded, 
merely respected. Everyone’s entitled to an opinion in 
a Nosferatu Hosting, but other vampires tend to listen 
most closely to the ones with the most prestige. 
Unlike most of Camarilla society, Nosferatu elders 
don’t lord over neonates just because of their status. 
As one would expect, when they shamble back to the 
rest of their sect, they retain this egalitarian attitude 
and don’t fawn over the prince and elders just because 
they’re the current “rulers.” Strip away the pretense, the 
finery and the eternal posturing, and the appearance of 
power is revealed for what it really is. Strip away the 
attractive faces and a few layers of flesh, and what’s left 
over is typically Nosferatu — pustulent, sore-ridden, 
diseased Nosferatu.
Sects and Politics
To outsiders, the vampires of Clan Nosferatu can be 
divided into three factions: Camarilla Sewer Rats, Sab-
bat Creeps and autarkis. The Sewer Rats are Nosferatu 
who formally introduce themselves to the prince of a 
Camarilla city and acknowledge his authority. The Creeps 
are Nosferatu who have undergone Creation Rites and 
formally serve the Sword of Caine. Autarkis vampires, of 
course, reject any political affiliation and don’t really refer 
to themselves as any sort of gang, political faction, social 
club or philosophical organization. This very simplified 
view of Nosferatu society pleases most other vampires, 
who often break down all sorts of supernatural creatures 
into nice, broad categories. 
It also pleases most Nosferatu, because... it is a lie. 
It is an utter and complete fabrication that misdirects 
anyone outside their society from understanding how the 
Nosferatu really work. Nosferatu are first and foremost 
individuals; political affiliation is just another delusion 
of the surface world. Generally speaking, Nosferatu care 
less about distinctions between vampiric sects than any 
other group of Kindred. When Nosferatu interact with 
other vampires, they nearly always request an exchange 
of information. 
No dictum, tradition or treaty forbids Nosferatu of 
different sects from talking to each other. If the princes 
and archbishops are offended, then such exchanges must 
be conducted in secret... and, in fact, they are, regularly, 
between emissaries from different clutches, broods and 
Hostings. Of course, such exchanges involve risk. While 
Camarilla and Sabbat Nosferatu endure a tenuous truce 
when exchanging information, individual Nosferatu may 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
55
have a fierce hatred for a particular sect. Survival also 
means adhering to the same philosophical beliefs as your 
allies — a Camarilla Martyr doesn’t have to jeopardize 
his political position every time an anarch arrives in 
town asking for secrets about the local prince. Trading 
secrets is possible, but no Nosferatu ever trades foolishly.
Ostracism
Among the Nosferatu who consort with other clans, 
bloodlines and cultures of vampires, Camarilla Sewer 
Rats are the most common. Embracing the politics of 
this sect, unfortunately, means accepting censure, scorn 
and ostracism. Nosferatu are the red-haired, reptilian 
stepchildren of the Camarilla. They rarely volunteer for 
the most prestigious political titles, and they are rarely 
nominated for them. Many Camarilla vampires eschew 
the idea of inviting these mangy, smelly, obsequious 
bastards into the highest levels of political power. In 
fact, Nosferatu princes are almost unheard of — while 
there are a few Sewer Rat sheriffs or scourges within 
Europe and North America at any given time, they 
are more the exceptions than the rule. As one would 
expect, they must be exceptional in the performance 
of their duties.
The ostracism Nosferatu face from the other Ca-
marilla clans isn’t just the result of prejudice. Because 
of their common need for survival (and their common 
fear of the Nictuku), the Nosferatu have a strong in-
formation network and political presence of their own. 
If more Sewer Rats were to obtain positions of politi-
cal power, their cultural ties would make them truly 
formidable. Imagine a prince who has spies stalking 
unseen among all the local coteries, Skins infiltrating 
the domain’s conspiracies and invisible enforcers with 
titanic strength to back it up. Other Kindred only 
suspect what lurks beneath the asphalt of their cities, 
and fear of the unknown is always more powerful than 
prejudice toward the known.
Fortunately, the vast majority of Nosferatu have no 
desire to accumulate such obvious avenues to power. 
Princes, even among the undead, come and go; the 
strength of a brood of Nosferatu lies in its ability to 
remain unseen. Instead of scrounging for political of-
fice and the vainglorious prestige that comes with it, 
Nosferatu focus on building their information networks. 
Even a Solitary who shuns the confines of broods and 
Hostings can access a few choice secrets if he needs to 
(for a price, of course). Information is the Nosferatu’s 
stock and trade, the common currency of their society. 
With each transaction, a Sewer Rat becomes more 
powerful, laughing up his sleeve at how thoroughly his 
race has infiltrated the Camarilla.
Autarkis Nosferatu and Belief
Becoming autarkis involves far more than simply 
rejecting the politics of the Camarilla and the Sabbat. 
Many autarkis Nosferatu reject the basic ideas on which 
both sects are based. These fundamental concepts are 
antithetical, in many ways, to a Nosferatu’s existence.
To begin with, Nosferatu society is extremely 
egalitarian; while elder Nosferatu are revered for their 
wisdom, there is no need to obtain political status within 
the clan. No Nosferatu ever really forces another to do 
anything, since many would just as soon crawl into a 
dark hole and concentrate on simple survival. With this 
in mind, many Nosferatu don’t see the need to prop up 
a Camarilla prince or Sabbat archbishop; the idea of 
recognizing the authority of other vampires seems alien. 
In the same way, autarkis vampires also see authority as 
a fabrication. While they aren’t stupid enough to flout 
the Six Traditions in a Camarilla city, they feel no need 
to put themselves on a prince’s leash and beg for respect.
Camarilla and Sabbat society are based on myths 
many autarkis refuse to accept. Both cultures entertain 
ideas that the Nosferatu were actually cursed by Caine, 
but a surprising number of autarkis refuse to accept the 
idea that Caine ever existed or at least question the details 
of such legends. According to these apostates, Caine is 
simply a legend meant to keep the Camarilla and Sab-
bat neonates in a state of perpetual fear. While several 
demented Ancients have stepped forward claiming to be 
the progenitor of all vampires, no one has actually ever 
seen Caine. As a myth, it attempts to define the vampire’s 
place in God’s universe, but many autarkis prefer to hold 
to their own religious beliefs or simply none at all.
Furthermore, while the threat of Gehenna has kept 
many neonate vampires fearful, autarkis see little reason 
to fear the rise of the Ancients. If the legends of the 
Nictuku are true, Nosferatu has already started killing 
his childer. Why, then, support any society that would 
have a philosophy for dealing with the End Times at 
all? The point is moot. Whether the Camarilla elders 
act as pawns of the Methuselahs or Sabbat packs stand 
a chance of rising up against the Antediluvians does 
not matter. Autarkis Nosferatu are prepared to accept 
the inevitable, much as they have accepted all the other 
ugly truths of their lives.
Apolitical, irreverent and isolationist — these are 
three of the strongest traits of the Nosferatu. Autarkis 
Nosferatu display all three qualities openly. They travel 
freely through the domains of princes and archbishops 
alike, stating their opinions to any broods who will hear 
them. This freedom of expression doesn’t make them ter-
ribly popular, but then again, popularity is the least of an 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
56
autarkis Nosferatu’s concerns. Staying true to what you 
believe — no matter what the cost — is far more vital.
Creeps and Sabbat Humanity
As the cliché goes, Nosferatu are the most “humane” 
of vampires, even among the ranks of the Sabbat Creeps. 
Since they supposedly accept themselves as monsters, 
they have no need to indulge in shocking behavior. Mas-
ters of Obfuscate and misdirection, a Creep calculates 
his appearance precisely to attain the reaction he wants, 
whether that’s fear, respect or pity. What lies within his 
heart, however, may differ completely from the façade.
Unfortunately, this statement cannot be applied 
universally to all Sabbat Nosferatu. As outcasts of both 
human and Cainite society, some of them choose to 
liberate themselves fully from conventional morality. 
What’s the point of “accepting yourself as a monster” 
if your behavior is quintessentially human? Morality is 
dependent on the individual, not the sect; nowhere is 
this more true than among the Nosferatu. This is part 
of what allows Sabbat, Camarilla and autarkis Nosferatu 
to exchange information so freely: Political affiliation 
does not preclude communication. 
Creeps value their individuality, almost to a fault. 
While the Vaulderie usually prevents them from plac-
ing the needs of a local brood or other Nosferatu above 
the needs of their own pack, Creeps are very secretive 
about their private activities. This is repulsive to many 
Sabbat, but Sabbat Nosferatu insist on the freedom 
to occasionally skulk off to pursue their own agendas. 
Beneath the calculated appearance, no one can guess 
what dark secrets reside in the withered hearts of these 
monsters. Thus, whether a Creep chooses to be humane 
or monstrous is ultimately his own personal decision.
Anarchy and Misinformation
Among the ranks of the Nosferatu, a few are not 
content merely to hide from the political turmoil of 
Camarilla and Sabbat society — they want to tear it all 
down, destroying the hierarchy of princes, primogen, 
bishops and ducti and establishing domains where one 
vampire need never bow to another. This idea appeals 
particularly to neonate Nosferatu because it mirrors the 
hidden practices of the clan itself. Brujah anarchs often 
rebel against elders with little idea of what society to 
construct in their absence, but Nosferatu already have 
an working model of an alternative society.
Because of their talents for espionage, subterfuge 
and misdirection, a Nosferatu is an excellent recruit for 
any society of anarchs. Sewer Rats excel at finding out 
dirty little secrets and weaknesses of the city’s elders, 
sometimes gathering them from Camarilla Nosferatu 
in the same city. If such a nocturnal rebellion succeeds, 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
57
the spy is certain to be rewarded... or pass on what’s he’s 
learned to the next group of rebels. If the rebellion fails, 
he may feel free to scurry off to the next domain, asking 
for sanctuary from another brood or at another Hosting.
The World Above
Don’t think for a moment that Nosferatu lurk 
solely in the local sewer system. Nosferatu who can 
imitate anyone through the use of the Obfuscate Dis-
cipline often prefer to make their home in the world 
above. Sewer Rats above ground often take credit for 
the urban squalor that sprawls across the largest cities. 
As parts of the city decay, the vampires of this clan 
extend their territories, reclaiming slums, abandoned 
buildings, industrial wastelands, homeless shelters 
and other urban nightmares as their domains. Urban 
eyesores reflect their attitudes toward the world. A 
rusting, abandoned building may serve perfectly as 
a massive middle finger raised toward the “beautiful 
people” of society.
As the city decays, the Nosferatu play. Elder Nos-
feratu use their diplomacy and influence, conspiring with 
fairer Kindred to keep a few neighborhoods “degentri-
fied.” Keeping the slums decayed benefits everyone in 
the clan, along with a few vampires outside it. It’s good 
to have a few neighborhoods in town where the police 
rarely patrol. If a Nosferatu can break into someone’s 
home without fear of police investigation, he can rip 
off anything he needs from the local kine. The Creeps 
of the Sabbat are masters of “urban renewal”: If harpies 
get to take credit for art galleries and museums, it’s only 
fair for Nosferatu to be proud of their status as immortal 
slumlords.
Vampires often regard humans as lesser creatures, 
and Nosferatu are no exception. No one is more be-
neath them than mortals trapped in the poorest and 
most impoverished parts of town. Preying off the dregs 
of society is very practical: The lower the station of a 
victim, the less likely others will believe he’s been at-
tacked by a monster. Creeps and Sewer Rats alike love 
to lurk among the city’s homeless. A Nosferatu who 
spends a great deal of time stalking through the right 
neighborhoods can easily adapt them into his herds and 
feed off the with impunity. 
Humans are easy prey, but they’re especially vul-
nerable when they lack walls to protect them, others 
to defend them and laws that respect them. Transients 
are rarely accorded the same rights as ordinary citizens. 
They’re treated as nuisances, harassed by police, swept 
from one neighborhood to the next and often purpose-
fully ignored by the rest of their species. 
If big cities aren’t to one’s liking, industrial waste-
lands outside the city limits are just as suitable. Nosferatu 
feel at home in neighborhoods that are as horrific as 
they are. Rusting, rotting, chemical-laden dumping 
grounds make them feel right at home. Because they 
aren’t as susceptible to disease as humans, they’re quite 
willing to move into abandoned buildings corrupted by 
toxic chemicals and waste. Some progressive Sewer Rats 
eschew such decadence and look to the future instead. 
They like to back new construction, trading favors to 
influence the creation of tacky, elaborate buildings. 
Nothing drives a harpy into a tizzy like a strip mall 
(or strip club) carefully positioned next to an artistic 
Elysium.
Nosferatu Ghouls
Camarilla vampires never tire of boasting that 
they “control” human society. Nosferatu have no need 
to indulge in such arrogance. Instead, they carefully, 
swiftly and silently take control of the hidden power in 
a city, including the unseen servants who keep it run-
ning. Nosferatu routinely create ghouls to help them 
infiltrate human cities further... and exploit them for 
their own benefit.
Sewer Rats ignore human pawns in obvious places 
of power. Let the respected vampires muck about with 
mortal politics. Sometimes, 10 well-chosen bureaucrats 
or aldermen can achieve far more than the mayor ever 
could. Political celebrities come and go, but well-placed 
ghouls can stay involved in city politics for years and 
years. Corporate employees on the fast track to success 
may work for a company for a few years, but a janitor 
can gain access to the same building for a lifetime. 
Anyone who wades through the detritus of the 
city — “sanitation engineers,” janitors, street sweep-
ers, maintenance workers and the like — scrounge for 
the Nosferatu what the more fashion-conscious clans 
leave behind. Many people ignore the workers who sort 
through their trash, blissfully throwing away what the 
Nosferatu harvest. They don’t notice the construction 
workers toiling on skyscrapers far over their heads or, 
more importantly, the foreman who obediently fol-
lows his instructions for changes and alterations to 
the building’s construction. Beneath the mortals’ feet, 
workers scurry underground, performing unseen tasks, 
sometimes on epic projects the average citizen simply 
doesn’t care about. Many of them are required to pass 
drug tests to keep their jobs, but even blood tests can’t 
reveal an addiction to vitae.
Nosferatu also thoroughly dredge the lowest strata of 
society, recruiting humans who are desperate for power. 
Criminals, transients, drug addicts — such poor fools 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
58
will do anything to improve their lot in life. Mortals 
trapped in bad neighborhoods, grueling dead-end jobs 
or debilitating cycles of addiction will occasionally 
cheat and steal just to get by. Imagine what they’d do 
for immortality. 
Such opportunities are not without drawbacks. 
Humans who consume the blood of Nosferatu gain 
the same benefits as other ghouls: incredible strength, 
increased vitality and a reprieve from aging. Along 
with these gifts, however, they also receive a foul taste 
of Nosferatu’s curse. After a thrall has taken the third 
dose of his regnant’s blood, he begins to take on subtle 
changes that render him unattractive and unsightly. 
It’s only a slight transformation, but mortals who deal 
with Nosferatu ghouls always suspect that something 
is not quite right with them. Acne, greasy hair, weight 
problems, slouching gaits and body odor are just part 
of the problem. There’s an unnatural taint that goes 
deeper than pockmarked flesh. Over time, such minor 
flaws can become greatly exaggerated.
Animals are even better at noticing the genetic 
corruption in Nosferatu ghouls, reacting to them with 
fear and loathing. Any vampire with the Animalism 
Discipline can learn to calm down curious beasties, 
but creepy, tainted ghouls simply don’t have this op-
tion. No matter how human they appear, the presence 
of Nosferatu ghouls makes cats caterwaul, dogs growl 
and all other animals go apeshit. More than one blood-
addicted vitae-junkie has had to slay his own housepets 
to cover up his degeneration. 
Because unseen Nosferatu regnants need many 
agents to act among the kine, they are unusually fond 
of developing blood cults. If they are too horrific to 
venture above ground, it’s helpful to have many ghouls 
who aren’t. Bitter Sewer Rats who loathe the thought 
of disguising their true appearance rejoice when an 
attractive ghoul reaches the third and final stage of 
her blood bond. They rejoice even more when she can 
bring her friends back to her master’s crypt with her. A 
Nosferatu ghoul deep in thralldom must be very vigi-
lant about gathering enough blood to sustain the cult; 
because regnants rarely venture into the waking world, 
the ghouls of a Nosferatu blood cult will sometimes 
sacrifice their friends and lovers to their master to sate 
their own addiction for vitae.
Blood cults are as rare as they are desirable, however, 
largely because they are so dangerous to control. To 
sustain enough ghouls for an effective cult, recruitment 
becomes essential. Sometimes this involves recruiting 
other Sewer Rats to help perpetuate the scam, result-
ing in entire broods based around the maintenance of 
elaborate cults. Despite reverential intentions, when a 
vampire’s thrill of controlling others approaches ma-
nia, some Nosferatu cults become positively religious 
about protecting their unseen master. Like Leatherfaces 
renowned for breaching the Masquerade, Nosferatu 
blood cultists are sometimes slain as soon as they are 
discovered by a city’s brood. The most successful cult 
leaders drift from town to town, leaving a trail of broken 
(and bloody) hearts behind them.
Kingdoms of  
the Underworld
Princes and cardinals claim to “rule” the cities of men 
above, but only out of ego, delusion and deceit. Want to 
hear a really great secret? No prince actually rules her city. 
No cardinal ever has complete control over his domain. 
He might have a great deal of political influence, but 
if other vampires recognize his political title or royal 
position, they are reacting to something that is purely 
illusory, a surface deception. No vampires are more aware 
of this than the Nosferatu, who do not succumb easily to 
surface appearances. They may openly acknowledge the 
authorities of princes and cardinals above ground, but 
once they skulk underground, they enter another world, 
one step further away from the delusions of Kindred 
and Cainite society. Rulers may pretend to command 
vampires in the world above, but Nosferatu command 
their own kingdoms in the underworld below. 
Nosferatu kingdoms are as old as human civiliza-
tion. From the first time the Nosferatu Antediluvian 
skulked into the nearest cave to hide from mortals, the 
clan has been creating its own hidden domains. The 
need to create realms where Sewer Rats and Creeps can 
walk in their true forms unites Clan Nosferatu more 
than any other force. Not all monstrous vampires can 
walk around with supernatural Obfuscate all the time. 
They need a place where they can stalk, skulk and 
brood undisturbed, even if it’s deep, deep underground. 
Since vampires have stalked the night in human 
cities since the dawn of human history, they have tried to 
influence the development of those cities for their own 
benefit. This is the only true way vampires can coexist 
with mortals, and Nosferatu know this well. Just as the 
archetypal Ventrue lays claim to the financial world 
or the stereotypical Toreador proclaims the cultural 
havens in the city as part of her domain, Nosferatu 
influence the development of the city’s slums, barrens 
and storm sewers. In cities where the Nosferatu thrive, 
vast sections of the sewers are altered to accommodate 
their kind. Welcome to the Kingdom of the Nosferatu, 
a realm where monsters stalk freely, unafraid to show 
their true and terrifying forms.


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
59
The Monster in Its Labyrinth
All Nosferatu kingdoms lie at the center of vast 
urban labyrinths, sprawling networks of tunnels that 
form subterranean warrens. Underground domains 
have layers and layers of insidious defenses, sometimes 
more for the amusement of the local residents than for 
their actual safety. When a brood of Nosferatu infests 
a city, they immediately swarm to gain influence over 
the construction and transportation industries. Care-
fully chosen ghouls, political influence, blackmail and 
prestation are all essential to gain a stranglehold on the 
entrails of the city. 
If Nosferatu broods have been working together in 
the sewers for a long time, they’ll have twisted the bowels 
of the city to their own benefit. Elaborate tunnels are 
walled up, preserving the privacy of underground do-
mains. Vast buildings are condemned, providing rotting 
husks of habitation for neonates. Stashes, caches and 
crypts contain hidden resources. Booby traps become 
more insidious as the warren grows — every sewer worker 
and transit cop instinctively learns that there are places 
in the darkness where they dare not venture.
Subway tunnels are another important part of a 
Nosferatu’s labyrinth in many major cities. Not only do 
they provide rapid transportation and easy prey from 
late-night commuters, but they are powered by the 
city’s electricity. It doesn’t take much effort to siphon 
off enough juice from the tunnels to add to the warren’s 
defense. Leading a few wires from the third rail to an 
electrical trap is even easier. 
Over centuries, the greatest minds of Clan Nosferatu 
have devised ways to keep their kingdoms isolated and 
unseen. Consider that an elder vampire with a command 
of Protean may take the form of a rat or bat, crawling 
through spaces where no human can dare go. Some can 
even assume a gaseous form, wafting through pipes, vast 
vertical drops and cracks in walls. The oldest and most 
powerful Nosferatu can hide in niches deep beneath the 
city, deep within areas constructed centuries before the 
city’s mortals were even born. 
The Antechamber
Just because your home is surrounded by piles of 
offal and excrement doesn’t mean you can’t entertain 
the occasional guest. Most Nosferatu warrens have an 
area that serves as a reception area and guard post, a 
network of rooms where visitors can be kept waiting 
while they enjoy the local ambience. Sewer Rats gen-
erally refer to this area as an Antechamber, although 
it is usually composed of several chambers, tunnels, 
corridors and dead ends. Weak vampires travel all over 
the city to conduct their business, but when a Nosferatu 
has something valuable, anyone who wants to bargain 
with him should risk a descent into the local broods’ 
underground empire. 
The local Nosferatu like to keep this area as atmo-
spheric and aromatic as possible. The Antechamber 
is designed to disorient visitors, both physically and 
psychologically. There is no short cut to get to this 
room; visitors get a circuitous tour on their way to meet 
the clan’s elders. This is done partly out of practicality; 
after all, the local brood doesn’t want visitors to learn 
the layout of its domain too well. More than any other 
instinct, this realm is maintained out of perversity. 
Nosferatu are made to suffer on the surface, so it’s only 
right that those who visit them below should get the 
same treatment.
The Antechamber is designed with maximum 
paranoia, discomfort and confusion in mind. Tunnels 
are choked with sewage, filth and garbage, and visitors 
must often stoop, trudge or crawl on all fours to reach the 
inner sanctum. Masters of animals like to keep hordes 
of rats, roaches, bugs, slugs and other vermin nearby to 
entertain their guests. Petitioners who bitch and moan 
get led through a few more dead ends or are left to wait 
alone in the darkest, foulest areas of the labyrinth. Mer-
ciful Nosferatu steer their visitors away from the really 
lethal traps; vampires who are obviously trying to exploit 
their sewer-dwelling brethren don’t get this privilege....
By the time visitors reach the center of the Ante-
chamber, where their requests will be heard, they are 
physically disoriented and psychologically exhausted. 
The rare visitor who can endure this journey without 
complaint earns the respect of the Nosferatu. The anal-
ogy between the labyrinthine maze surrounding the 
Antechamber and the Byzantine politics practiced in 
the world above is obvious... especially to those who 
must suffer during their visits to either world.
The Chamber of Horrors
Any thriving warren also needs an area large enough 
to hold all the freaks, Creeps and Sewer Rats within its 
territory. Nosferatu refer to this area as the Chamber 
of Horrors — it’s a combination of an audience cham-
ber, ballroom, recreation area and fallout shelter. The 
chamber is usually set in the most defensible area of 
the sewers. As one would expect, its name comes from 
the back room of a wax museum, where rubes pay a 
few extra shillings to see sights that chill their blood.
The decor of the Chamber of Horrors usually reflects 
the local brood’s attitude to the outside world. Humane 
Kindred in prosperous cities maintain a chamber that 
makes their existence a little more pleasant. Ornate 
tapestries showing the histories of local Kindred line 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
60
the walls; crystal chandeliers wanly illuminate the 
interior; rows of sculptures stand stoically beside their 
Ancient owners. Martyrs thrive on cultivating an artistic 
ambience in such rooms; just as their tortured souls are 
trapped in husks of hideous flesh, they maintain beau-
tiful inner sanctums in the bowels of the city sewers. 
Nosferatu visitors often get sick of such pretentious 
crap, but hospitality prevents them from expressing 
their opinions too freely to their hosts.
In particularly nasty cities, the chamber is a hell-
hole, a pustulent sore deep within the sphincter of the 
city. Monstrous broods create these rooms with shock 
value in mind. Grotesqueries of all kinds proliferate. 
Wax-museum effigies, implements of torture, elaborate 
displays of taxidermy, mummified corpses, glass jars 
filled with bloated human organs — you get the idea. 
Anguished Kindred put on a display of being horrified 
at a truly nauseating chamber, much to the delight of 
the local brood.
Security is tightest around the chamber, and as 
such, vampires who do not belong to Clan Nosferatu 
are never brought there. It is possible for a Nosferatu 
to sell information about the chamber’s defenses, but 
only at the cost of his own reputation. Surrounding the 
Chamber of Horrors, traps, deformed ghouls, faithful 
beasties and other obstacles protect the safest area of 
the sewers. Only the local Nosferatu can remember 
where all the defenses are. As a last-ditch defense, 
clever Nosferatu keep track of which structural points 
to smash if they want to collapse the ceiling. If a 
brood is going to die, its members prefer to take their 
enemies with them.
Spawning Pools
The Chamber of Horrors lies at the heart of a brood’s 
defenses; unspeakable abominations sluggishly crawl 
along the veins and arteries. Nosferatu share their domains 
with hosts of animals and insects, critters that slither and 
crawl where they please. The easiest way to cope with 
these infestations is to turn them to the local brood’s 
advantage, usually through the use of a spawning pool.
In any brood’s territory, elder Nosferatu share the 
duty of occasionally bloodying a local watering hole. 
This vitae-soaked cesspool attracts vermin who gorge 
themselves, developing a fierce addiction to vampiric 
blood, increased vitality and monstrous deformities. 
Spawning pools are essential to the maintenance of 
any underground kingdom, not only for pest control but 
also for defense. What human ghouls are to the world 
above, blood-addicted beasties are to the world below.
Spawning pools are usually created with one particu-
lar type of creature in mind. Insect hives, rat colonies 
and nests of cockroaches are all choice locations for 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
61
tainting the local food, fluids and feces with vitae. 
Eventually, other sewer denizens begin feasting at the 
same spot, but by then, one dominant type of creature 
has usually claimed the spawning pool as its domain. 
Devouring the other critters who are drawn there is 
merely an added benefit.
Animals who feast regularly upon vitae develop the 
same addiction for vampiric blood that humans do, as 
well as the same devotion to their vampiric masters. 
As one would expect, it takes far less vitae to develop 
an emotional bond in a cockroach or fruit fly than it 
does in a lawyer or investment banker (though some 
would say not much more). Nosferatu may also choose 
to create spawning grounds for more exotic creatures, 
setting aside a pit or pond where the beasties must be 
cared for. Raising snakes or alligators takes a bit of work, 
but ultimately results in monstrosities whose strength 
and cunning makes up for the investment of blood. 
Nosferatu who dwell closer to the surface may instead 
develop an affinity for packs of feral dogs, kitty cats or 
even street kids. A bowl of vitae-soaked milk (or beer) 
can attract a host of thirsty friends.
V:tM System: If a horde of creatures feeds in a 
spawning pool, they do not all become full ghouls, but 
still develop increased Strength and Stamina (increase 
each of those Traits by one). They also degenerate even 
more than ghouled humans do: The glint fades from 
their eyes, their skeletons warp, and their temperament 
becomes vicious. Like full-blooded human ghouls, they 
can get testy if they don’t get regular doses of vitae. 
Should this happen, they lock into a state of mind that 
approximates a vampire’s frenzy. When the chance to 
feed approaches (say, when a small child sticks her 
hand down a sewer grate), the beastie needs to make a 
Willpower roll at difficulty 9 to avoid savaging its victim. 
MET System: Any animal that feasts on blood 
from a spawning pool gains one extra Physical Trait; 
it technically also gains one Trait in each of the three 
Virtues. Prepare a few prop cards to represent these crit-
ters’ statistics. If they are not fed at least once a week, 
the owner should make a Static Test for each one to see 
if it acts against the will of its owner and attempts to go 
completely feral; the Animal Ken Ability allows a retest.
Live-Action Underworld
While access to the local sewers is no longer au-
tomatically conferred on Nosferatu during character 
creation, a Storyteller may still wish to offer it as an 
enhancement to her chronicle. In some troupes, the 
presence of sewers is largely theoretical: A Sewer Rat who 
descends into the warrens is “off-site” for a few scenes, 
or he merely steps outside to have a chat with a visitor 
to the underworld. In others, particularly those with 
a large game site or a number of Nosferatu, a physical 
location may become the sewers, such as a hallway, an 
isolated room or a basement. 
Once a game location has been established for the 
warrens, the Storyteller should sit down with the Nos-
feratu players and map out what an intrepid explorer 
might see, what security measures have been taken by 
the Nosferatu, what places in the warrens are inac-
cessible except to Nosferatu or those guided by them, 
and are there any means by which an unaccompanied 
adventurer can avoid security or other hazards. Such 
maps need not be detailed down to the last brick, but 
having the major details noted and laid out can save 
arguments over what’s supposed to be where, what trap 
should have caught which intruder, and the like.
Troupes who favor elaborate displays and set-
building may let their imaginations run wild. If the 
Storyteller and Nosferatu agree to designate an area 
of the game site as the warrens, consider some decora-
tion to change the ambiance from the regular game 
location (say, a fancy hotel ballroom) to the decidedly 
different Nosferatu kingdom. Dim lighting, plastic rats, 
sounds effects (such as dripping water or distant subway 
whistles) and the occasional extra touch (such as an 
inflatable gator if your warrens have spawning pools, 
an Antechamber set with old furniture and broken 
mirrors, the chamber of a closet Frank Sinatra fan) 
can go a long way to making the sewers more than 
a mere locational change. Storytellers may also wish 
to prepare index cards with descriptions and pictures 
of typical sewer hazards, along with the tests needed 
to defuse, spot or navigate them. If you choose to go 
this route, there should be a Narrator down below at 
all times, or at least within calling distance; you may 
find it helpful to request that any non-Nosferatu going 
into the sewers stop to inform the Storyteller, so he 
can send a Narrator below to run challenges.
Ghouls of the Underworld
When a Nosferatu makes a human his ghoul, there 
is a chance the subject may react rather poorly. Just 
as the Nosferatu Embrace utterly corrupts a fledgling 
vampire’s appearance, it is possible for a Nosferatu 
ghoul to become physically degenerate. Usually, such 
flaws are not revealed until the third and final stage of 
the blood bond. The mark of evil is typically only a 
slight taint: A stoop, twisted teeth or blotchy skin are 
typical examples. 
If a Nosferatu ghoul serves his master for too long, 
however, his degeneracy can transform him into a piti-
ful and abominable creature. Ghouls who repeatedly 
take on tasks that are morally reprehensible, deeds that 
even their masters would not attempt, may become 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
62
subhuman, exhibiting leprous skin, a loss of speech or 
a loping, doglike gait. Such creatures are treasured by 
Bestials, not only for their sinister appearance but also 
because they typically learn to shun the world above. 
Once a ghoul can no longer pass himself off as human, 
he is willing to abandon the world of men and descend 
into the lowest levels of a Nosferatu kingdom.
Underground ghouls forever forsake the light of day. 
They serve with a loyalty unparalleled in any creature, 
willing to serve for an eternity, if necessary, performing 
the most reprehensible tasks in a Nosferatu warren. Their 
only “flaw,” aside from their inhuman appearance, is 
the brutality they exhibit when they succumb to frenzy. 
Subhuman ghouls often develop a taste for human flesh 
that rivals their addiction to vitae and regularly indulge 
in secret orgies where they gleefully consume the flesh 
of the dead (or even worse, the living).
It is said that some ghouls have learned to rebel against 
their vampiric masters, forming their own subterranean 
colonies. Rumors proclaim that some have developed 
an immunity to the blood bond; they revile those of 
their kind who so readily serve vampiric society. There 
are legends (typically repeated by jaded neonates) that 
these ghouls have found other sources of vitae, either 
by capturing neonate vampires, allying with Solitaries 
or Leatherfaces or harboring revenants who have also 
forsaken vampiric society. No proof of these allegations 
have been found — merely underground chambers leading 
to the cemeteries of small towns, feeding pits lined with 
human bones and caerns of skulls bearing what distinctly 
appear to be vampiric fangs.
V:tM System: There is no proof that the subhuman 
variety of ghoul even exists... although... if it did... it 
would have Strength +2, Stamina +2, Intelligence 1 and 
Appearance 0. Subterranean ghouls have an additional 
weakness: They frenzy more frequently than weaker 
ghouls. For each week that passes after a ghoul’s last 
frenzy, increase the difficulty of all of its Self-Control 
rolls by one. Subhumans will try to avoid this curse by 
regularly staging events that draw out their most savage 
urges, gathering in secretive chambers or graveyards 
with a tasty assortment of fresh corpses arrayed before 
them. Bon appétit.
MET Subterranean Ghouls:  Create a basic human 
ghoul according to Laws of the Night. Such creatures 
may not take Social Traits related to Appearance, such as 
Alluring or Gorgeous — they are becoming too inhuman 
to look like or relate to normal humans. Should they 
frenzy, they gain a Negative Trait related to something 
subhuman, such as Bestial or Callous, in addition to any 
normal loss of Morality. When a subterranean ghoul 
encounters a mortal or vampire, make a Static Self-
Control Challenge (lose on ties). Should he lose or tie, 
he is immediately overcome with a tremendous hunger 
for her flesh and blood, and drags her into the warrens 
to feed on her. A subterranean ghoul venturing above 
ground in daylight takes no damage from sunlight, but 
may (at Storyteller discretion) be stunned for several 
turns and may suffer penalties in any challenges that 
require him to be in full light.
Horrid Diversions
Immortality is the greatest blessing a sire can bestow 
upon his childer... and the worst possible curse an elder 
can endure. Staying “forever young” may be appealing 
to some vampires, but for Nosferatu, the gift comes 
with an obvious drawback. When you spent eternity 
listening to the dim echoes of the vibrant world above, 
existence can be rather bleak. Fortunately, Nosferatu 
have no end of horrid diversions to distract them and 
occupy their time on this Earth (or beneath the earth, 
as the case may be). 
Information Networks
The Nosferatu have an unparalleled reputation as 
information brokers or, as some would say, spies. They 
have a habit of turning up dirty little secrets most vam-
pires would never find. While Camarilla vampires have 
learned that the Sewer Rats habitually have access to 
information no one else can find, most are completely 
unaware of how they actually discover it. 
Nosferatu “unity” accounts for a great deal of the clan’s 
stranglehold on information. Most Nosferatu routinely 
trade secrets no Ventrue or Tremere would dare disclose. 
Even Camarilla and Sabbat Nosferatu trade knowledge 
about their respective sects, albeit for a very high price. 
This sense of cooperation between Sewer Rats and 
Creeps doesn’t just arise out of goodwill, though: Both 
sects are threatened by tales of the Nictuku. According 
to legend, these Ancients are so stealthy that they could 
easily infiltrate a city and eliminate an entire warren. 
Cooperation is thus the clan’s surest avenue to survival. 
No Nosferatu is ever obliged to trade away a secret he 
wants to hoard, but by exchanging what he has learned, 
he becomes richer with every transaction.
Of course, this freedom of information can be taken 
too far. Just because a vampire has Nosferatu vitae cours-
ing through his veins does not give him instant access 
to all the dark secrets he can remember. Data always 
comes with a price. From the moment a Nosferatu 
enters another Sewer Rat’s domain, he receives hints, 
requests or outright threats for information. The Fifth 
Tradition insists that any vampire respects the domain 
of another. If a Nosferatu wants to use the resources of 
others of his kind (which he invariably needs to do), 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
63
he’s naturally going to be asked to perform a few favors 
in return. Broods need such information to survive; 
they’ll barter it carefully for maximum returns.
Spies are the most important aspect of a Nosferatu’s 
web. Neonate Nosferatu who work with broods are 
enlisted for one of the most dangerous — and most 
educational — tasks a Sewer Rat can attempt: watch-
ing the other vampires of the city. Elder Nosferatu 
give these childer a relatively simple task: Watch and 
learn. The ones who get caught, of course, deserve to 
get punished, usually by the vampires who uncovered 
their insidious activities. An elder who is besieged by 
fledgling vampires (say, as new players in a live-action 
troupe) would be wise to send them out unseen to ob-
serve the world outside the sewers.
A Nosferatu should never discount the usefulness of 
animal spies. The Animalism Discipline allows Creeps 
and Sewer Rats to gather simple information from 
creatures many vampires overlook while they conduct 
clandestine business. Rats scurry in and out of some of 
the most inaccessible buildings in a city. Alley cats are 
quickly dismissed as harmless by soft-hearted humans 
and oblivious Kindred. Watchdogs will wait for hours 
outside a building in return for a scant bit of praise from 
their masters. Birds have no trouble soaring overhead to 
watch movements on the ground. Of course, the qual-
ity of such information is limited by the intelligence 
of the animals, but sometimes, just knowing who goes 
where at what times within a city is enough to give a 
Nosferatu an edge over other vampires.
Nosferatu also have numerous social amusements 
involving the transfer of rumors and secrets. Mastery 
of mnemonic games is one of their specialties. One of 
the most popular games is similar to a well-known chil-
dren’s game. The youngest vampire in the room begins 
by stating a secret that he knows; the next oldest may 
repeat the first secret, adding one of his own. Elders who 
look down on such childish entertainment leave the 
room, but neonates can spend hours swapping trash in 
this way. If a Nosferatu forgets part of the chain or adds 
a secret that can’t compare to the ones before it, he’s 
forced to leave the room as well. Of course, elders also 
cheat at this game, lurking nearby while the youngsters 
spill their guts.
To pass long nights in the sewers, Nosferatu also 
gather with others of their kind to exchange stories of 
the surface world. For Sewer Rats who never venture into 
the world above, such tales are often their only source of 
information. Nosferatu storytelling is legendary. It is ideal 
art for such hideous creatures, especially since it relies 
entirely on the voice. In tunnels obscured by complete 
darkness, the most dramatic storytellers can captivate 
a brood of neonates with nothing but carefully chosen 
words and inflections. Epic stories are passed from brood 
to brood, sometimes in exchange for passing through a 
domain. One caveat is essential here, however: Rarely, 
if ever, are the greatest Nosferatu stories told to anyone 
except another Nosferatu.
One might very well argue that because of the 
number of antisocial vampires in the clan, boredom is 
the final reason contributing to the success of Nosferatu 
information networks. Nosferatu who refuse to interact 
with others have more time to kill than typical Kindred 
and Cainites. For Nosferatu, social events are not a prior-
ity, rendezvous with mortals only endanger their survival, 
and clan politics are far too shallow a pursuit. Feeding is 
relatively easy, since most Nosferatu are not particular 
about where they get their blood, and companionship 
(other than the occasional coterie) is a rarity. When a 
solitary Nosferatu has a chance to host others of his kind, 
gossip can be a welcome relief from countless nights of 
skulking alone beneath the city. Bingeing and purging 
a host of nasty little secrets in one evening can sustain 
a sewer dweller for a long, long time.
Scandals
Honesty is crucial among Nosferatu, no matter 
how ugly the truth might be. When trading informa-
tion, Sewer Rats should do more than just spread dirt 
around; when dealing with their own kind, they should 
disclose how trustworthy their sources are, evaluate how 
true a rumor might be and stake their reputation on the 
absolute infallibility of their news only when necessary. 
There is only one segment of Nosferatu society that does 
not adhere to these guidelines: the Scandals.
Nosferatu Scandals regularly deal in rumors that 
would make the average tabloid journalist blush. If 
you believe what a self-proclaimed Scandal is selling, 
you deserve what you get. Information traders of this 
sort specialize in salacious gossip, outrageous reports 
and outright innuendo. One of the best examples of 
the work of a Nosferatu Scandal was the epic story of 
the “Bat Child,” an escaped Nosferatu fleeing from 
mortal authorities on fluttering, chiropteran wings. 
The tales the Scandals fabricated about this creature 
were so sensational that they were eventually repeated 
in a common supermarket tabloid over the course of 
several months. This one legend, more than any other, 
has made scandalous tabloid-style reporting eminently 
popular among a new generation of neonate Nosferatu. 
Although such stories are rarely believed, there is always 
a hunger for such “infotainment.” Enquiring minds still 
want to know.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
64
Will Work for Blood
Pasty, bloated, antisocial, greasy-haired misfits — do 
those words describe Nosferatu or the lowest lifeforms 
the Internet has to offer? Both groups are nailed with 
the same crude stereotypes. To become truly proficient 
in the world of computers, some humans retreat from 
all social contact, ignore simple matters of personal 
hygiene and reject mainstream standards of self-esteem 
as they’re drawn further and further into another world. 
Is that an unfair description? Even if it is, the reputa-
tion of hackers is base enough to attract the attention 
of elder Nosferatu who know nothing of the information 
superhighway. In a desperate attempt to understand 
the modern world, broods are recruiting a whole new 
generation of hackers and computer freaks into the 
clan. Swap the Erg Cola and O’Tolley’s take-out for 
the occasional chance to suck on human blood, and 
the lifestyle is not all that different.
Enough computer-savvy vampires have been in-
ducted into the clan to erect an entirely new social 
phenomenon among the undead: SchreckNET, a virtual 
domain crawling with cyber-clueful Nosferatu. The 
Nosferatu have taken up the tools of the information 
age with a passion, especially ones that allows them 
to interact with each other completely undetected, 
without having to see (or smell) each other. Appear-
ance means nothing in this domain. Neonate hackers 
don’t go in for icons, avatars, scanned photographs or 
“virtual” representations — they learn the identity of 
other computer creeps solely by the words they employ 
and the thoughts they convey.
Just as their elders have social protocols, Nosferatu 
have developed their own codes of conduct for e-mail 
and chat rooms. On the rare occasions when another 
supernatural creature hacks its way inside, a breach 
of antisocial etiquette can force a whole chat room 
of Nosferatu to disappear and coalesce “somewhere 
else” on the Net. And of course, as one would expect, 
SchreckNET users choose their words very carefully, 
since any forum can be surrounded by hosts of lurkers.
Modern broods may see the value of keeping a 
Nosferatu hacker on hand, providing him with enough 
blood and tech to devote himself entirely to his craft. 
Through chat rooms, encrypted e-mail messages, bul-
letin boards, encoded web pages and the like, users 
passing through the SchreckNET hub continue to pass 
along information used by one of the most extensive 
nocturnal conspiracies in the world. The Internet never 
sleeps, and SchreckNET keeps its information gateways 
open all night.
Scavenger Hunts
Take practical training in espionage, throw in con-
tempt for other supernatural creatures, and add a dose 
of bloody good fun. The result is a traditional Nosferatu 
pastime elders call the aranta-shadur. Neonates know 
it as a “scavenger hunt.” It begins with the clan elders 
assembling all the neonates and ancillae in a warren for 
a Hosting. The elders then distribute a list of items that 
are closely tied to other vampires in the city. Usually 
the chosen objects satirically comment on the vampires 
who own them. Typical examples include a Toreador 
poseur’s full-length mirror, a pretentious Tremere magus’ 
favorite cloak or the brand-new and untouched leather 
jacket from an intellectual Brujah’s closet.
Each participant also has a few special items tailored to 
his skill and generation. A neonate, for instance, wouldn’t 
have much of a chance of stealing the prince’s signet ring, 
but an ancilla probably could. If the elders wish to test 
especially promising Sewer Rats, they may ask more than 
one Nosferatu to acquire a particularly rare item. Excep-
tionally powerful competitors may even be expected to 
abduct mortals or even other vampires as part of their list. 
On rare occasions, the local Nosferatu may invite vampires 
from other clans to participate. Anyone who’s better at 
gathering dirt than the Nosferatu certainly deserves their 
respect, so winning a Nosferatu scavenger hunt can garner 
an impressive amount of prestige.
There is one stipulation to this sport: All items must 
be acquired surreptitiously, without the knowledge of 
their owners. This is a test of stealth and cunning, not 
of intimidation or combat ability. As with the mundane 
version of this amusement, the competitor who steals the 
most items by the deadline (usually about a two hours 
before sunrise) wins. The last two hours are essential 
for the final step of the aranta-shadur, when the items 
are returned to the places they were found.
But Is It Art?
Contrary to what some Degenerates say, every vam-
piric society, every supernatural clan and every collective 
of night stalkers in a given city has its own version of 
“art.” From the Brujah rebel’s rants and raves to the 
Ventrue capitalist’s quarterly report, every vampire has 
his own particular form of expression. Nosferatu have 
artistic endeavors as well, though admittedly, many of 
them are crafted for the sole purpose of offending other 
Kindred’s delicate sensibilities.
Nosferatu art falls into two extremes: It either thrives 
on shock value, or it reveals a depth of humanity that’s 
even more shocking. Unlike the egotistical displays of 
other clans, Nosferatu art is particularly bizarre because 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
65
the artist doesn’t necessarily expect his work to be seen. 
In fact, many of the greatest works of Nosferatu art have 
been hidden in chambers of absolute darkness, never to 
be viewed... until the right vampire walks into a place 
where he shouldn’t be. Make of this moral what you will.
One of the most common media of Nosferatu art is 
sculpture, particularly since Nosferatu artists have no 
shortage of raw materials. With the Potence Discipline, 
smashing, bending and chiseling out massive works of 
art is surprisingly easy. Some of the most isolated tunnels 
of the sewers serve as an ideal “gallery.” One popular 
approach is lining underground tunnels with mile after 
mile of spiraling tubes, electrical wires and sheet metal. 
Such works not only have aesthetic value but also serve 
as psychological warfare: An outsider wandering too 
deep within a city sewer may be terrified to discover 
how elaborate such works really are.
Sound is not only a popular medium, but a practi-
cal one. Nosferatu “sound rooms” are oddly shaped 
chambers designed to echo bizarre acoustical effects. 
Sometimes the emanations reverberate for miles down 
a corridor, scaring the hell out of anyone who doesn’t 
realize where the sounds originate. More importantly, 
auditory art can also mislead and misdirect creatures 
who would invade a Nosferatu’s domain. A common 
variant involves guttural “singing” — inhuman noise 
takes on an even eerier quality when it’s echoing from 
five directions at once. Sabbat Nosferatu sometimes treat 
their victims to a private recital, providing a musical 
accompaniment as they stalk their fleeing prey though 
the underworld. 
“Water chambers” combine sound and visuals to cre-
ate viscous, dripping masterpieces. Cavernous, echoing 
chambers filled with dripping pipes leak foul fluids on 
taut drums of human skin, twisted vibrating metal or 
rows and rows of human skulls. Cracks are chiseled with 
a precision that establishes a steady rhythm. Condensa-
tion weeps bizarre melodies on the trash piles gathered 
beneath it. The result is entirely alien, meticulously 
grotesque and strangely compelling. 
Fun with Fungus
If music is not to an elder’s liking, he may prefer 
to study the art of agriculture. Granted, a Nosferatu’s 
knowledge of plants is often limited to specimens that 
grow in darkness and fecal abundance. This includes a 
vast array of mycological wonders. The most extensive 
Nosferatu kingdoms include vast “fungal chambers,” 
where Sewer Rats cultivate growths that defy scientific 
classification. Psychedelic mushrooms, semi-intelligent 
oozes, gelatinous blobs and spore-chucking carpets of 
bacteriological horror all thrive in the moist, steamy, 
yeasty interiors of Nosferatu gardens.
It is rumored that in the Kingdom of Manhattan, 
Sabbat Nosferatu kidnap human victims and toss them 
into their carefully cultivated subterranean forests of 
fungi. There, mortals are forced to ingest exotic and 
often lethal hallucinogens. As they “trip to death,” 
drug-addled Nosferatu feed on them, enjoying a de-
lightful alternative to the standard “suck-and-shuck.” 
Camarilla vampires tell tales of Creeps indulging in 
fungal-enhanced orgies before they set out for their 
war parties. Camarilla Sewer Rats remain curiously 
silent about these rumors and skulk back to their own 
fungal kingdoms.
Interview with a Vampire
Cynicism and pessimism are essential to a Nosferatu’s 
survival. Most vampires of this clan don’t try to delude 
themselves about their clan or their place in the world. 
They don’t explain away their atrocities with noble 
sentiments; because they have to accept themselves for 
what they really are, they must face reality no matter 
how ugly it gets. And because Nosferatu spend so much 
time removed from many Camarilla activities, whether 
by circumstance, social ostracism or preference, they 
also hold a rather objective view of the failings of other 
clans. We don’t need to tell you any more. It’s better 
to let some of the Sewer Rats tell you themselves... or 
maybe even one of their victims....
New Orleans, 1999
From my flat in the Vieux Carré, my guest looks out 
upon the city with his old eyes, speaking softly of the tor-
ment he has had to endure for centuries. He is beautiful, 
rather like a god, as I expect all vampires are. Six-foot 
tall and thoroughly Anglo-Saxon, he is beautiful enough 
to inspire love at first sight. Although I can scarcely 
believe my good fortune, I sit at the table before him 
with my tape recorder, faithfully recording my interview 
with the undead. As he tosses his golden hair over his 
shoulder, he poses in the neon light. “So,” he says in 
his angelic voice, “you would like to learn about our 
Masquerade, would you?” As he carefully chooses his 
words, I cannot avoid gazing at his thick, sensuous lips. 
“Indeed!” I shout. “I have been writing about your 
kind all my life. I’ve spent years searching for you. I’ve 
even left my telephone number in a hundred differ-
ent phone booths in New Orleans, hoping you might 
answer. And now you are here!” I am so ecstatic that I 
can hardly breathe; instead, I babble with praise. “Did 
you have a chance to read the novel I sent you?”
As he continues musing, I find myself growing rather 
queasy. An odd smell is building in the room. “Yes, I 
read it. I’ll even tell you what I think of it,” he says, his 
voice dropping a full octave. The guttural sound that 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
66
follows mutates into a raspy, grating sound. As his façade 
is dropped, I see the vampire for what he really is. His 
blond hair turns into greasy dreadlocks; his skin withers 
into a brittle, reptilian cast. He hunches in his chair, and 
suddenly, the faint aroma of perfume I found so delightful 
becomes the unspeakable tang of a bathroom urinal cake.
“What’s the matter, kid? Who were you expecting? 
Brad Pitt?” The next sound on my tape recorder is the 
prolonged sound of retching as I vomit profusely....
The Camarilla
“Is this thing still on? Good. Here’s the story you want: 
The Masquerade hides six families of vampire in Camarilla 
society, the little conspiracy we’ve been maintaining for the 
last 500 years. Yeah, yeah, I’ve read your damn novels, and 
you don’t know shit about vampires. I wouldn’t use those 
books to wipe my ass. Killing humans onstage in Paris? 
Vampire rock stars? What the hell were you thinking?
“I don’t usually deal with humans, mainly because I hate 
your kind so much. That’s why we’ve got the Camarilla: 
We don’t want to deal with humans at all, so we’ve got this 
epic society to keep us distracted from human concerns. 
Actually, the other vampires like to treat it like it’s a big 
social event, but just you wait. When the shit hits the fan, 
the pretty vampires you write about are gonna be the first 
ones to hit the rotating blades.
“Of course, some Kindred claim that we actually ma-
nipulate every aspect of human society. Don’t believe it. It’s 
all bullshit. Me, I got nothing but contempt for your race, and 
I’d prefer to have nothing to do with it. That’s why my kind 
are called Sewer Rats. We live in the midst of your society and 
thoroughly infiltrate it, but we stay hidden the entire time. Oh 
yeah, and like rats, we don’t mind shitting where we live....”
The Sabbat
“Just in case that’s too pleasant for you, I know a group 
a vampires who hate the human race even more than I do. 
This other bunch, the Sabbat, know you for the vain and 
destructive little bastards you are. To you, vampires are 
some kind of poetic metaphor; to them, a human being is just 
another blood bag. Human life means nothing to them, so 
they’ll get away with killing as many of you as they need to 
survive. You’re lucky you didn’t attract a few of them with 
your pathetic bathroom scrawls. Sabbat Nosferatu revel in 
being as freakish and unsightly as possible — even more 
than me! — and love to give anyone who deals with them 
the Creeps. Hence their nickname.”
Brujah
“Both the Sabbat and the Camarilla have other kinds 
of vampires as well, and they’re not all artsy-fartsy pretty 
boys. Like I was saying, there are seven major clans. First 
off, there’s the Brujah, who’d just as soon kill you as look at 
you. You’d probably think of them as leather-clad Lost Boys, 
and they’d probably love to stomp you into the pavement 
because of it. They’re violent and unpredictable, no mat-
ter how intellectual they make themselves out to be. Quite 
frankly, the hero of your vampire novel would get his head 
bashed in by one of these guys. 
“You’ve always got to watch what you say around a 
Brujah. Most of them are a little too eager to get into a fight. 
Then again, they often forget how strong many Nosferatu 
are. If it comes down to a match between speed and strength, 
I’ll bet on me every time. We do business with them, but that 
doesn’t mean we like them. Selling information to rebellious 
Brujah is easy, since they’re always looking for an edge against 
their enemies. A lot of them are gullible: Spread a few lies 
around one of the local Rants, and they’ll charge off in seven 
directions at once, like all Gehenna’s broken loose.”
Gangrel
“Then there the Outlanders, the vampires who walked 
away from the Camarilla. They’ve always preferred the 
wilderness to the cities, and they have a tendency to wander 
where they will. Sometimes I wonder why we didn’t think of 
leaving the Camarilla before they did. They generally treat us 
better than any other clan. I think it’s because most of them 
have gone off into a frenzy a few times too many. A lot of 
them just want to be left alone — just like most Nosferatu 
do — so we tend to get along just fine.”
Malkavians
“What can I say about the Malkavians? Damn freaks. 
Can’t stand ‘em. They’re dangerously unbalanced. I’ve seen 
‘em act the fool one moment and then slash up someone with 
a razor blade the next. The Malkavians are all crazy — I hate 
having to do business with someone with multiple personalities.”
Toreador
“Then there are the Toreador. You want me to tell you 
what I think of the Toreador?” (Much to my alarm, the 
next sound on my tape recorder was a lengthy, gaseous 
emission of preternatural proportions emanating from 
the vampire’s nether regions.) “They’re so damn fascinated 
by beauty that they’ve forgotten how ugly their kind really is. 
Vampires pretending to be beautiful humans? Fawning over 
the prettiest portions of the mortal world? It’s like Jackson 
Pollock said.…” (My guest then proceeded to vomit 
blood on a nearby bedsheet, an artistic display my tape 
recorder simply could not record or reproduce.)
Tremere
“The Tremere are known as the Warlocks, since they 
study the dark arts. They’re creepy and they’re kooky... 
mysterious and spooky.... and the most doomed vampires 
on Earth. They’re all bound together through a blood curse, 
spending all eternity struggling against each other for power 
and authority within their clan. While their sorcery makes ‘em 
strong, it’s not worth the price of being trapped in this clan 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
67
forever. They talk a lot about loyalty, but the truth is, anyone 
one of them would screw over any other for a slight boost up 
their ‘pyramid of power,’ or whatever the hell they call it. As 
far as business goes, they’re always hungry for occult secrets 
or anything that helps them screw over their own kind.”
Ventrue
“The Ventrue are fools. Wealthy, influential, powerful 
fools. Most of them seem to think they’re the most qualified 
to lord over the Camarilla, and I say let ‘em have it. If they 
want to stand at the vanguard of the Cam, then that means 
they’ll be the first ones to get killed off when the next Sabbat 
crusade comes to town.”
Caitiff
“Finally, there are the Caitiff, or clanless — the lost 
darklings rejected by their creators. The Caitiff are the only 
vampires in the world who get screwed over more than we 
do. Then again, it’s good to know we aren’t on the bottom 
of the dog pile, right? We need someone to screw over, too, 
so if that’s the way it’s gotta be, too damn bad.”
Assamites
“Okay, so there are other clans, too, out in the dark places 
of the world. Take the Assamites, for instance. You know, a 
lotta Kindred talk about these guys like they’re assassins and 
not much else. I’ve dealt with some, though,  that are more 
successful as scholars, as students of the occult, that kind of 
thing. They’ve also got grudges with the Ventrue that go back 
a long way, so that makes them worth dealing with.”
Ravnos
“I don’t really give a damn about the Deceivers one 
way or the other. We’ve got nothing worth stealing, and 
they don’t usually come begging us for information. If they 
screw over Toreador and Ventrue, that’s all right with me.”
Giovanni
“Y’know, I’m used to being surrounded by vampires I 
can’t see. I have no idea how I’m supposed to protect myself 
against the dead. I’ve only got rumors about how the Giovanni 
barter with ghosts to spy on us all. Of course, if they aren’t 
trading that information away, it’s kind of a waste.”
Setites
“These guys are an enigma. They’re supposed to be, 
like, a pack of little blood cultists, trying to carry out some 
spooky master plan for the Death God Set, but then again, 
aren’t all the Camarilla Kindred supposed to be pawns of 
their Ancients, too? They’ve got a talent for corrupting and 
exploiting people, but I’m not so sure they’re any better at 
it than other vampires.”
Intruders
Learning about the other supernatural creatures in 
the world takes a little more work than studying other 
Kindred and Cainites, but the Nosferatu have pieced 
together enough hidden secrets to get by. One aspect of 
Nosferatu society, the Loremasters, spends an eternity 
trying to understand other occult creatures and don’t 
share their information too readily. The average Nosferatu 
pusbag has a less informed but far more colorful view of 
them. The opinions that follow were transcribed from 
an audio tape fished from the sewers of New Orleans....
Lupines
“The Lupines are night-prowling monsters through and 
through. I saw a Nosferatu crush the skull of one of these 
puppies’ with a single blow, but I’m guessing it was a lucky 
shot. I’d saying hiding from them would be the safest choice.
“I have seen, however, that there are a few Lupines that 
are just about as down and out as we are. When a wolf pack 
takes down its prey, the leaders get first shot at the prime bits 
of meat, but there’s always got to be some straggler that winds 
up chewing on the bones. I’ve met a few of these homeless 
werewolves — of course, I don’t know whether to trust these 
guys or just throw a steak over my shoulder and run.”
Mages
“In some ways, these guys are worse than Tremere. 
Fortunately, I think they’re rather weak. I mean, they’re 
mortal after all, right? Even knives and guns are lethal to 
a sorcerer. I also hear their version of magic’s got a funny 
way of backfiring on them. Not so tough — I’m surprised 
these Renaissance rejects didn’t die out a long time ago.”
Ghosts
“Yeah, sure I believe in ghosts. Buncha spooky guys hiding 
from the real world, but unlike the Nosferatu, they can’t touch 
it. As far as I can tell, they can’t do much of anything except 
watch what’s going on and lament. What? Do you think one’s 
watching us right now? Tell him to watch me do this....”
Faeries
“Oooh! Look at the cute little faeries! Dancing around, 
singing poetry and shit! If you ripped its wings off, it’d prob-
ably bleed to death. Big deal.”
Hunters
“Hunters? Human? Don’t believe it. I don’t know where 
these freaks learned to kill so efficiently, but with some of 
the powers they use, you know they ain’t human no more. 
Some Loremaster told me once that their possessed by angels 
or something, but I think he’s full of it. I’ve got no respect for 
a vampire who’s sloppy enough to kill the kine he feeds from. 
I’ve got even less respect for a human who thinks its his moral 
duty to kill off as many vampires as he can. Hunters are just 
another kind of monster, as far as I’m concerned.”
Adversaries
The underworld is vast, and while the Nosferatu 
may lay claim to all of it, other monsters are eager to 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
68
contest for control. Fleeing in the sewers may allow a 
Sewer Rat to escape the hazards of the surface world, 
but in the Gothic-Punk world, there are other creatures 
eager to remain unseen. The greatest among them are 
the legendary Nictuku, Ancients that predate all other 
concerns of Clan Nosferatu.
The Nictuku
By now, you’ve heard the legend: Nosferatu, the 
Antediluvian cursed by Caine, despised himself and 
what he had done so much that he began killing his 
own childer. Allegedly, the other Antediluvians must 
wait for Gehenna before they awaken and devour their 
descendants, but Nosferatu has already been slaying his 
own kind for millennia. Nosferatu’s eldest childer, the 
Nictuku, are rumored to stalk the underworld, winnow-
ing the weakest vampires of the clan until the carnage 
of the End Times begins.
The Nosferatu pride themselves on gathering some 
of the darkest secrets of vampiric society, but rumors 
and legends of the Nictuku abound. So far, most Lo-
remasters agree that the Nictuku are not a bloodline, 
but actually include most of the fourth-generation 
Nosferatu — most, but not all. If this is true, it raises 
a host of questions. What precisely has happened to 
Nosferatu’s other childer? Did they die out? Or have 
they been slumbering for millennia, waiting for the 
chance to rise up and devour their scattered relations? 
Do they even exist? Is the lie a tool to unite Camarilla 
Nosferatu against a common enemy? 
Rumor has it that the Nictuku have far more of the 
original Antediluvian’s vitae coursing through their veins. 
Some vampiric scholars even insist that they are all blood 
bound to the sleeping Ancient, acting as his eyes and 
ears (and tendrils and tentacles) throughout the world. 
There is no evidence of the Nictuku actually existing, 
though — in fact, the only hints of their existence are 
the scattered ashes of their alleged victims.
Regardless, Nosferatu who choose to remain isolated 
from the rest of the clan continue to disappear myste-
riously. This is the primary reason so many Nosferatu 
spend eternity hiding. Elders insist that only constant 
vigilance can put an end to these disappearances. A few 
are obsessed with the legend, rigorously investigating 
any rumor of a Nictuku presence. In response, neonates 
often scoff that the story is nothing more than a tactic 
used by elder Nosferatu to foster clan unity. They have 
sighted enough shambling horrors in the underworld 
beneath cities without having to blame killings on 
legendary creatures. As the debate mounts, so does the 
body count.
Other Critters
Still feel safe underground? What’s the skittering 
noise around the next bend of the tunnel? No wonder 
so many of the Nosferatu have to work together — just 
keeping their own underground kingdoms safe takes 
eternal vigilance and epic cooperation.
Wetbrains: Human beings, burned out on drugs or 
booze, crawl into the most unlikely places. According 
to Loremasters, sometimes “evil spirits” consume their 
souls and crawl inside of them. Whether that’s true, 
these foul and filthy rejects are not completely human 
— they’re desperate for food and (if the legends are 
right) for human souls, too. Crawling down into sewers, 
storm drains, alleyways and ditches, they twitch and 
shiver until hunger consumes them again.
Diseases and infections corrupt these shambling, 
half-human “zombies”; some are transmitted repeat-
edly when they rut with each other out of boredom and 
desperation. When the right piece of meat comes along, 
they’ll drag it down into the depths with them for food 
or sex (or possibly both at the same time). Urban tribes 
of wetbrains congregate for communal survival. Some 
barely pass themselves off as homeless, recruiting other 
victims in the process. Occasionally, their shagging and 
porking will produce wetbrain offspring; if it isn’t eaten, 
the child may survive without its parents’ addiction. If it 
grows up, it’ll no doubt gather a host of similar creatures.
Sewer Gators: Urban legend? So are vampires. 
Some of these mutations were bought by happy, little 
children on vacation in the Everglades... and flushed 
by angry, bitter parents back home. Feasting on sewage, 
hiding in garbage and occasionally snacking on pets 
and vagrants, they grow to a monstrous size. Some are 
albino, while others sport protective coloration (making 
Stealth rolls much easier). A few are blind, while others 
peer into the darkness with blazing red eyes. And, of 
course, a special few are raised as pets by Nosferatu... 
or do the oldest ones raise Nosferatu as pets? Sewer Rat 
storytellers suspect both legends are true. Then again, 
to some, all urban legends are true. For alligator stats, 
turn to the back of Vampire: the Masquerade.
Rats!: Colonies of scurrying rodents scamper 
throughout the city, feasting off garbage, spreading disease 
and avoiding obviously supernatural creatures who want 
to use them as disposable allies. Like all feral animals, 
they have a fierce survival instinct, and even when in the 
throes of Animalism, they have little reason to perform 
suicidal tasks for mysterious strangers. Still, they are ex-
perts on infiltrating human territories (often taking them 
as their own) and occasionally roam the sewers in packs. 
An average pack of Rattus norvegicus, for instance, may 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
69
consist of up to 60 rodents... if you see one coming your 
way, perhaps you should take another sewer tunnel. Rat 
stats are also in Vampire: the Masquerade.
A Festering Heap 
of Game Mechanics
Rules are meant to be broken or at least modified 
when they’re inadequate. For Storytellers who want 
more game mechanics, here’s a whole heap of them, 
scrounged from the world of the Nosferatu. Below are 
some more guidelines, suggestions and mechanics for 
Nosferatu characters, chronicles and adventures.
New Background: 
Information Network
You’ve got informants everywhere. You don’t even 
need to go to them anymore — they come to you, and 
they bring all sorts of dirty little secrets to trade. The 
secrets you gather may be completely irrelevant to the 
problems you have right now, in which case you can 
always trade them away for something you can use. Any 
factoid or datum you harvest may seem irrelevant now but 
may be massively useful later; it may give you a vital lead 
that places you one step ahead of everyone else. (Note: 
At the Storyteller’s option, these same game mechanics 
may also be applied to the Contacts Background.)
V:tM System: At the beginning of each chapter 
of a story, roll a number of dice equal to the number of 
dots you have in this Background against difficulty 8. 
If you succeed, the Storyteller will give you a random 
rumor you’ve acquired from one of your informants. 
One success is a hint; three includes some commentary 
on the reliability of the rumor; five successes shouldn’t 
shut down the evening’s story, but it should reveal a 
secret valuable enough to elicit a favor from another 
supernatural creature in the city.
MET System: If your Storyteller allows it, you may 
purchase the Information Network during the freebie 
point phase of character creation. At the beginning of 
each session, make a Simple Test with the Storyteller. 
If you win, he gives you a bit of information that has 
been floating around the network (which may or may 
not be related to the current story). Alternately, your 
Storyteller may allow you to use it once per session as an 
“ear to the ground” to see if you can dig up something 
about your current interest (of course, what comes 
back need not have anything to do with the subject 
at hand, or even be truthful — caveat emptor). Your 
Storyteller may require you to detail something about 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
70
who or what makes up your network. This Background 
functions separately from the Contacts Background, in 
that it utilizes only the local rumor mills, water cooler 
gossips and the like, while Contacts are more specific.
Nosferatu and  
the Lore Ability
Nosferatu trade in all sorts of secrets, including 
the deepest mysteries of the occult sciences. In game 
terms, the Secondary Ability Lore (or one of its 
many incarnations) represents the field of knowledge 
peculiar to a Loremaster. Each area of the outré or 
supernatural has its own particular variant, whether 
that’s Sewer Lore, Camarilla Lore, Sabbat Lore or 
something even more exotic. This skill isn’t used 
purely to remember esoteric knowledge; it can also 
help an occultist discern, largely from context, atti-
tude, references and presentation, whether another 
Loremaster is telling the truth or wildly fabricating 
and speculating to misdirect someone he doesn’t 
respect. This can also be attempted with the Occult 
Knowledge, but only with at least five levels and the 
appropriate specialization. Keep in mind that the 
Nosferatu have their own culture built around such 
transactions; Tremere, mortal mages, Arcanum hunters 
and academic crackpots each have their own cultural 
standards for exchanging occult knowledge.
Any subject worthy of the esoteric lore contains 
a hierarchy of secrets, from the outer mysteries taught 
to an initiate to the inner secrets hoarded by esoteric 
masters. In both the tabletop and live-action version of 
this game, the Lore Ability has at least five dots (or five 
levels) of specialization. A Nosferatu with a higher Lore 
Ability than another seeker of knowledge has secrets 
so obscure that he may not want to trade them with 
lesser initiates. For example, a live-action character with 
Cainite Lore x 5 may not want to share an apocryphal 
reference from The Book of Nod with someone who has 
Cainite Lore x 4. While such knowledge is commonly 
thought to be the stock and trade of the Tremere, re-
member that the Nosferatu are willing to deal in any 
type of secret. Regardless of clan, experts don’t dispense 
with their trade secrets easily.
As such, the Lore Ability may also be used to evalu-
ate how learned another Loremaster is. In live action, 
someone with this skill may attempt a Mental Chal-
lenge while questioning another occultist in matters of 
the supernatural; the winner of this test learns exactly 
how many Lore Traits his opponent has. In tabletop, 
each Loremaster rolls Lore; the difficulty for the roll 
is (10 - the level of Lore the vampire has). Fooling 
someone into thinking you’re more knowledgeable 
than you actually are may mean you can learn some 
secrets outsiders were not meant to know: Someone 
with four levels of Sabbat Lore may learn of a fragment 
of knowledge hoarded by scholars with five levels. The 
most esoteric secrets of Clan Nosferatu, like the masters 
of knowledge themselves, are hidden behind vast and 
labyrinthine corridors of misdirection and deceit. Enter 
their lair at your own risk.
Merits and Flaws
Storytellers tend to either love or hate Merits and 
Flaws. As always, they should feel free to limit, modify, 
accept or ban them as they see fit. For players of White 
Wolf’s Mind’s Eye Theater, many of the descriptions 
are followed by rules for adapting these optional traits 
for live action. As always, using one of these edges or 
handicaps requires the permission of a Storyteller or 
Narrator.
Lizard Limbs (1-pt. Merit)
With a little bit of effort, you can shed parts of 
your body. When one of your appendages is restrained 
or grappled, spend one blood point and roll Willpower 
(difficulty 8). If you succeed, you can tear off that body 
part and wriggle away. Vampires can eventually regrow 
their limbs if they spend enough blood; however, if 
you’re missing an arm or leg, you should have a -3 dice 
pool penalty to represent your injury. And remember 
to be careful: If you shed both your legs, you’ll have a 
bitch of a time crawling away. 
MET: By burning a Blood Trait and a Willpower 
Trait, you can shed one of your limbs. You can do this 
for as much blood and Willpower you’re willing to 
sacrifice. Gain the Negative Trait: Lame while you’re 
without the limb (you receive no extra Traits for it). 
Roleplay the deformity until it grows back.
Long Fingers (1-pt. Merit)
Your fingers are unnaturally long and spidery. You 
gain an extra die on any roll involving coordination 
or grappling. 
MET: Gain the Physical Trait Dexterous, and a one-
Trait bonus in all challenges involving manual dexterity.
Oversized Fangs (1-pt. Merit)
You have enormous fangs, snaggly tusks resembling 
those of an elephant or walrus. They cannot be retracted, 
but they do an additional die of damage and add one 
die to your Intimidation dice pool.
MET: Gain two bonus Traits useful in any biting 
attack. Your bite does an extra level of damage.


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
71
Piscine (1-pt. Merit)
You are abnormally comfortable underwater and 
vastly prefer swimming to walking. You get a -1 dif-
ficulty on any Physical dice pool related to underwater 
movement.
MET: Gain a bonus Trait during any challenge 
related to swimming or movement through water; this 
Trait is available to you only when you are at least 
chest-deep in water.
Slimy (1-pt. Merit)
Like a worm or mollusk, you have skin that secretes 
an oozing slime. Your difficulty to soak fire damage is 
reduced by one, and opponents who try to grapple you 
must score two more successes than normal.
MET: Gain an extra Health Level for resisting fire 
damage, plus two bonus Traits when someone is trying 
to grapple you.
Gaping Maw (2-pt. Merit)
You’ve got a nasty gash where your mouth should 
be. It can smile, it can frown, and most importantly, 
it can grin two or three inches wider than any human 
mouth can. An ordinary vampire can suck up to three 
blood points in a turn. You can drain up to four points 
a turn, provided you can latch your tooth-filled orifice 
around enough skin.
MET: You can drain a victim for four Blood Traits 
each turn instead of three.
Projectile Vomiting (2-pt. Merit)
This talent is like the Eat Food Merit, but twice as 
versatile. Food comes in; food goes out very, very fast. A 
vampire with this ability can ingest, and possibly even 
taste, food and drink. He cannot gain any nutritional 
benefit from this ordinarily digestible matter, but he 
can store it for later use. When this need arises, the 
Nosferatu can not only disgorge his stored supply of 
food, but also aim it with a degree of precision.
For the record, projectile vomiting in the Storyteller 
system usually requires a Stamina + Athletics roll; the 
difficulty is 8, and a victim can attempt to dodge this 
bolus of ejected victuals. Although this attack does not 
cause damage (save to one’s pride), the type of food 
ejected may temporarily obscure a victim’s vision, cause 
him to slip or merely force him to weep with shame at 
a Camarilla Toreador’s grand ball. Pity the poor vomit-
drenched Toreador....
MET: Vomit doesn’t work quite the same way other 
projectile weapons. If you’re attempting to hit someone 
or something with this nasty missile, you must succeed 
in a Physical Challenge. Your victim may resist in the 
usual manner (modifiers for dodging and cover apply).
Sleep Unseen (2-pt. Merit)
You can use the Obfuscate Discipline to hide while 
you sleep during the day. Such prolonged use of this 
ability requires an extra blood point (or Blood Trait) 
to keep your body hidden for a full day. Of course, you 
must at least be hidden from sunlight, and vampires 
using the Auspex Discipline can still detect you, but 
mortals will ignore your very presence. This is a use-
ful Merit for Nosferatu emissaries and travelers; many 
would perish without it.
MET: Spend an extra Blood Trait (in addition to 
any required by Obfuscate) before laying down to sleep. 
You must have Storyteller permission to take this Merit.
Tough Hide (2-pt. Merit)
Thick, leathery skin envelops you. Add an extra 
die when soaking damage (for anything except fire or 
sunlight).
MET: You have an additional Bruised Health Level.
False Reflection (3-pt. Merit)
When using Mask of a Thousand Faces, a Nos-
feratu with this Merit can create a false impression 
of his disguise on recording media. He can have his 
picture taken, show up on videotape and even record 
an imitation of the subject’s voice. Nosferatu without 
this Merit cannot disguise themselves to machines using 
the Obfuscate Discipline.
MET: Spend a Mental Trait for each use of this 
(beyond any expenditure for Mask of 1000 Faces — so 
that’s one Trait for your voice, one for your reflection, 
etc.). You should describe what the recording device 
picks up.  
Foul Blood (3-pt. Merit)
The vitae flowing through your veins tastes truly 
awful. Anyone who bites or feeds from you must make 
a Willpower roll (difficulty 6) or spend the next turn 
choking, retching and gagging. Any idiot who actually 
tries to diablerize you must make three Willpower rolls 
(difficulty 9) to succeed.
MET: After biting or feeding from you, the victim 
must make a Simple Test to avoid becoming nauseated 
for a full scene; no spending Willpower to avoid the 
test (it tastes that bad). If the victim becomes nause-
ated, he suffers a one-Trait penalty on all Physical 
Challenges. This makes blood bonds torturous, the 
Embrace becomes even more difficult, and ghouling 
is near impossible.
Reptile Buddy (3-pt. Merit)
Yes, those legends about albino alligators in the 
sewers really are true. You’ve been nursing a few of them 
with your vitae in the local spawning pool for years. 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
72
Your careful breeding and vigilant training has produced 
a reptilian slave of exceptional intelligence. It has a 
mind as sharp as that as a five-year-old child and teeth 
as keen as butcher knives. The beast understands your 
native language perfectly and can even follow complex 
directions. Faster and deadlier than any human ghoul, 
it is a highly efficient killing machine fully capable of 
patrolling your domain with ruthless efficiency. Reptile 
buddies also love to play “fetch” with human limbs 
(whether attached or severed).
Ghouled Reptile Buddy
Physical: Strength 6, Dexterity 2, Stamina 6
Social: Charisma 0, Manipulation 0, Appearance 0
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 1, Wits 3
Disciplines: Fortitude 2, Potence 2
Blood Pool: 5
Willpower: 5
Attacks: Bite (7 dice), Tail Slap (6 dice)
MET Stats
Physical Traits (7)
Social Traits (0)
Mental Traits (2)
Fortitude (Endurance, Mettle), Potence (Prowess, Might)
 Blood Pool 12
Willpower 3
Patagia (4-pt. Merit)
Leathery wings fold up into your horrid little body. 
Picture the gliding wings of a pterodactyl or a flying 
squirrel. Now visualize them hanging off the twisted 
skeleton of batlike wings. With the aid of an updraft or 
a strong wind, you can glide for short distances — rather 
useful for Nosferatu who skulk along rooftops, don’t you 
think? Storytellers should know that a vampire with this 
Merit can glide at his normal walking speed.
MET:You can’t actually fly or hover with this Merit, 
only glide like a flying squirrel on flaps of leathery skin 
that stretch from under your arms and down your sides. 
You may not carry passengers and only personal items 
may travel with you (Storyteller discretion). Further-
more, you need wind to carry you, and if there’s none, 
you just drop like a stone (so don’t even think about 
using this indoors). When gliding, hold your arms out 
at your sides and wear a tag indicating your unusual 
appearance. You may glide at a normal walking speed. 
Consult the Storyteller before taking this Merit.
Rugged Bad Looks (5-pt. Merit)
Your face is hideous, but it could almost pass for that 
of a really ugly human. If you were to cover every other 
part of your body, you could shamble into mortal society 
looking only slightly suspicious. While you might have 
a hunchback, reptilian scales over parts of your flesh 
or a foul stench that never dissipates, you can actually 
walk among mortals — with extensive precautions — 
without automatically breaking the Masquerade. Other 
vampires give you no end of grief for not looking like 
a “real” Nosferatu. By the way, this is as “attractive” 
as a Nosferatu ever gets; no Merit will ever increase a 
Nosferatu’s Appearance above zero.
Blunt Fangs (1-pt. Flaw)
Your teeth are huge and square, not sharp like those 
of other vampires. To do damage with a bite attack, you 
must score an additional success (thus, this extra success 
subtracts from the amount of damage you do). Once you 
have sunk you teeth into your prey, you inflict a level 
of damage for every two blood points you take. Once 
your fangs are locked in a victim’s flesh, you’ve got to 
chew and chew and chew....
MET: You need to make an extra Physical Challenge 
(in addition to any required to grapple your victim) in 
order to get your teeth in your victim. Your dulled bite 
does a level of damage to your victim for each Blood 
Trait you acquire. 
Infamous Autarkis (1-pt. Flaw)
The Camarilla won’t accept you as one of its own 
under any circumstance. The Sabbat wouldn’t think of 
submitting you to Creation Rites — it’s just not worth 
it. Something in your past, your reputation or your sire’s 
background is so abhorrent that both sects reject you 
utterly. You aren’t just autarkis; your infamy spreads 
throughout both sects of vampiric society. Although 
you might find a coterie that’s willing to work with 
you, they would not dare take you to any gathering of 
Camarilla or Sabbat vampires for fear of damaging their 
own reputations. The Storyteller may allow you to buy 
off this Flaw but only after you’ve completed a story in 
which you’ve resolved and overcome this social stigma.
MET: You may never gain Camarilla or Sab-
bat Status. This marks you as automatic prey for the 
Scourge in a Camarilla city, and for any likely hunters 
in a Sabbat city.
Stench (1-pt. Flaw)
Even other Nosferatu recoil at your horrific odor. 
Subtract two dice from any Stealth roll when evading 
any creature that can smell (unless you are upwind). 
MET: Lose all ties related to stealth automatically 
with this Flaw; it’s pretty hard to sneak up on someone 
when he can smell you coming. You need not actually 
neglect personal hygeine to roleplay this Flaw. Wear a 
tag indicating your deformity


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
73
any fashion; in fact, the worst of them are very defiant 
because they have been strengthened and corrupted by 
your foul vitae. 
Each day, when you rise, roll one die. Divide the 
result by three, rounding up. The result is the number 
of blood points you lose to the blood-intoxicated para-
sites within and upon you. In addition, the constant 
itching puts on you edge; increase the difficulty of all 
Self-Control rolls by one.
MET: When you go into play at the beginning of 
the evening, make the usual vitae test. Once you learn 
your level of vitae, make four Simple Tests — each 
loss or tie indicates a Blood Trait lost to your parasites. 
You suffer a one-Trait penalty during Self-Control tests. 
Roleplay the constant itching the parasites give you; 
also wear a tag to indicate to onlookers that your skin 
is quite literally crawling.
Enemy Brood (3-pt. Flaw)
A brood of your fellow Nosferatu have an unceasing 
vendetta against you. You can run from them, but you 
can’t hide. If you stay in the same city, they will pool 
whatever resources they have to make your existence 
a living hell. Traveling through the local sewers is a 
nightmare. If you flee, they will use their influence and 
contacts to call in favors in the next city you show your 
ugly mug. The Storyteller may allow you to buy off this 
Flaw, but only after you’ve completed a story in which 
you’ve resolved and overcome this social stigma.
MET: This is a specialized variation of the Flaw: 
Hunted, found in Laws of the Night. Consult your 
Storyteller before you take it, and work with her to 
determine why you’re hunted.
Necrophile (3-pt. Flaw)
No, you don’t have sex with the dead, but you 
certainly enjoy their company. You are obsessed with 
dead bodies and “invite” them over to your domain. 
Your haven is distastefully decorated with severed and 
mutilated body parts of all kinds. You talk to your dead 
friends, dance with them, make art out of them and 
entertain frequently. Some vampires of particularly 
refined temperament may need to overcome a Courage 
roll (difficulty 4) to enter a room where you’ve left your 
guests and their accouterments. Toreador go apeshit; 
Toreador antitribu applaud. For some reason, this Flaw 
is very popular among Leatherfaces.
Withered Leg (3-pt. Flaw)
For whatever reason, one of your legs does not work 
as well as the other. You subtract three dice when at-
tempting any action that involves movement, and you 
move at half normal speed.
Optional Nosferatu Traits
There’s only so many times you can describe 
yourself as Bestial. Just how ugly is Repugnant 
anyway? Sometimes those words just don’t quite 
seem to do justice to describe a spine curved like a 
bow, a wattled neck, a fanged maw or suppurating 
lesions. Would a back twisted with scoliosis and a 
face blighted by smallpox scars be less hideous if 
simply described as Nasty?  With the Storyteller’s 
permission, you may take these Traits to describe 
your more “outstanding” features. What follows 
are just a few — grab a thesaurus and get creative. 
However, if you’re going to use these, remember 
to incorporate them into your roleplaying. These 
adjectives are no different as descriptors than, say, 
Brawny or Impatient might be.
Optional Nosferatu Traits: Blighted, Blub-
bery, Charred, Dreadful, Engorged, Flaccid, Mangy, 
Nauseating, Oozing, Petrified, Putrefied, Pustulent, 
Reptilian, Repulsive, Rubbery, Scabrous, Scarred, 
Skanky, Withered.
Anosmia (2-pt. Flaw)
You have no sense of smell or taste. The vilest odors 
and flavors imaginable cannot affect you; in fact, you do 
not even recognize their presence. You cannot attempt 
a Perception roll that involves either of these senses. 
However, any supernatural attack involving horrific 
odors and tastes does not affect you. Granted, Nosferatu 
who have surrounded themselves with unseemly funk 
long enough become immune to just about any foul odor, 
but you simply do not recognize smells at all.
MET: From the reek of spoiled milk to the delicate 
perfume of a magnolia in bloom, from the tang of blood 
on your tongue to the memory of your last martini, the 
world of scent and taste is lost to you. You may not take 
this Flaw and the Merits: Acute Sense: Smell or Acute 
Sense: Taste. You automatically lose any challenges 
relating to smell or taste; Heightened Senses for taste or 
smell has no affect on this.
Parasitic Infestation (2-pt. Flaw)
Other creatures live on or inside you. Exotic hemovo-
res — chiggers, gnats, ticks, lice, mosquitoes, leeches and 
unnamable bloodsucking fungal spores — consider the 
creases, folds and scabrous layers of your skin delight-
ful. Your flesh continuously twitches and writhes, and 
living things burrow inside you, possibly even nesting 
in the cavities of your body. Despite all your ingenious 
methods of discouraging them, this loathsome hosting 
will not disperse. You cannot command these vermin in 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
74
MET: Gain the Negative Trait: Lame x3 (but no 
benefits from it), and you fail any challenges that would 
require two good legs (such as running or dancing). 
Roleplay any difficulties in walking.
Putrescent (4-pt. Flaw)
After you received the Embrace, your body con-
tinued to decay. The mystic processes that inhibit a 
vampire’s natural putrefaction has little effect on you. 
As a result, you constantly rot. Subtract one die when 
your character soaks damage. If you are jarred or hit 
violently, roll Stamina (difficulty 6). If you fail, one of 
your facial features or limbs falls off. If you botch, you 
also take a level of aggravated damage; once this wound 
is healed, the missing body parts will regrow.
MET: Whenever you take damage, make a Static 
Test to see if the damage becomes aggravated due to 
your accelerated decay. You stink something awful, 
too — wear a tag whenever your true form is visible, 
proclaiming that you look and smell like a rotting corpse 
out of B-grade horror movie.
Traitor (4-pt. Flaw)
Oh, you’re a bastard, all right, and if the other 
Nosferatu find out about this, they’ll kill you on sight. 
You’ve been leaving information (through a designated 
drop point) about your alleged allies. This might involve 
regular e-mails, messages hidden at the same spot or a 
package you drop off for a courier. You must betray se-
crets about your allies, usually the members of your own 
coterie, every game session. At the end of the session, 
you must tell the Storyteller what you’ve done; if you 
haven’t been enough of a bastard, one of your secrets 
winds up on the local information network.
Contagious (5-pt. Flaw)
Dead bodies contain all sorts of infectious bacteria, 
fungi and spores. There’s a reason coroners wear gloves 
when handling corpses. Thanks to a rather virulent 
version of Nosferatu’s curse, a few doomed varieties of 
Nosferatu retain these infections after their Embrace. 
Contagious Nosferatu can never interact with mortals 
without the possibility of spreading sickness and disease. 
A mortal who touches a Contagious Nosferatu must 
make a Stamina roll (difficulty 9) or fall prey to illness 
for the next week. At the end of each week, the victim 
must make another roll; once he succeeds, he recovers 
from the illness.
While this may seem like a rather crippling Flaw, 
it does force players to think of new ways of interacting 
with the human world (many of which are detailed in 
this chapter). To maintain a sense of game balance, most 
other supernatural creatures have ways of dealing with the 
Contagious Sewer Rat’s disease: Werewolves regenerate 
very quickly, mages can mystically remove the infection 
from themselves or other mages, wraiths just don’t give a 
damn because they’re incorporeal, and so on.
Incoherent (5-pt. Flaw)
You are incapable of human speech. Maybe your jaw 
has collapsed or you’ve been abandoned in the sewers 
for too long. Pointing, grunting, wheezing and wildly 
gesturing are all within your repertoire, but actually 
forming words is not. While a player portraying this 
character can describe what he is doing, the character 
can never utter a word. The only exception to this is 
communicating with animals; you can express yourself 
to beasts with nonverbal language. 
MET: Maybe your tongue fell out during your 
Embrace, or your vocal cords are atrophied from disuse. 
For whatever reason, you just can’t speak clearly. You 
may use sign language or write out what you want to 
say, or you could just go for grunting and wild gestures. 
You may talk to your Storyteller or Narrator for rules 
purposes, but when in game, you must roleplay the Flaw.
Clan Disciplines
Elder Nosferatu who have studied the powers of 
the Blood for centuries devise many ingenious uses for 
their Disciplines. Neonates, on the other hand, often 
find themselves overwhelmed, unsure of what to do 
with this heady amount of power. For sires and childer 
alike, allow us to suggest a few unusual applications of 
your clan’s primary disciplines, methods you might not 
have previously considered.
Animalism
Animalism, the first “clan Discipline” of the 
Nosferatu, is easily one of the most underappreciated 
supernatural abilities. Neonates usually see a few obvi-
ous uses for this power and tend to be terribly amused 
the first few times they are able to converse with alley 
cats, sewer rats and roaming packs of feral dogs. They 
may even enjoy the first time they “summon up” a few 
of these urban creatures to attack others on their behalf. 
Elders are quick to point out, however, that there are 
other uses for this Discipline beyond the vampiric ver-
sion of “Monster Summoning.”
Scouts: Masters of the Obfuscate Discipline believe 
they are the most effective scouts and spies of vampiric 
society; they are sadly mistaken. While particularly 
perceptive Kindred may notice the Unseen Presence 
of Nosferatu, they often ignore the scouts that masters 
of Animalism recruit. With Feral Whispers, any alley 
cat or street rat can be instructed to take a quick look 
around a corner, sneak inside a building or even shadow 


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
75
a suspicious character. Some Nosferatu have been known 
to carry around a pet specifically trained for this purpose; 
training one requires Animal Ken, of course.
Guard Dogs: Because Nosferatu are paranoid 
about being seen, it helps for them to have a few 
extra allies watching out for them. Training a watch 
dog or guard dog is much simpler with the Animal-
ism Discipline than the Animal Ken Ability. Even a 
lowly cat or rat can be instructed to act as a lookout 
for a skulking Nosferatu.
Diversions: Ordinary urban animals are often ideal 
for planned diversions. Some neonates think that the 
Beckoning power is good only for staging an attack; 
however, as any good Sewer Rat knows, sneaking is 
often better than fighting. If you are being shadowed by 
your enemies in a public park, for instance, encourag-
ing a flock of pigeons to flutter about your pursuers as 
a diversion is much easier than trying to summon up 
a flock of birds to peck them to death. Beckoning isn’t 
intended to be used just on large groups of animals; 
a lone mortal walking his dog at night can create a 
host of opportunities a swarm of sewer rats does not. 
Mental Manipulation: While not as effective as the 
Dominate Discipline, the Animalism power of Quell 
the Beast is an often overlooked way to manipulate 
mortals. By using this power effectively, a Nosferatu 
can convince a human witness that the presence of a 
skulking, sewer-dwelling monster is really not such a 
horrible threat after all. With a touch and a glance, a 
master of this ability can distract a witness long enough 
to bind and gag him, knock him senseless with Potence 
or give the other members of a coterie enough time to 
deal with him. Quell the Beast also makes for an excel-
lent feeding technique.
Bestial Revelry: Some particularly bestial Nosferatu 
vastly prefer the Animalism power of Subsume the Spirit 
to Mask of a Thousand Faces. And why not? While an 
Obfuscated Nosferatu may be able to disguise himself 
as an innocuous human, a master of Animalism may 
freely roam the surface world as a rabid dog, feral cat 
or a more exotic sewer-dwelling creature. Auspex does 
not detect this possession.
Animal Spies: While a vampire with Heightened 
Senses may note a Nosferatu’s Unseen Presence, he may 
have no qualms about speaking freely in front of the 
alley cat that just skulked in through the window of his 
haven. This oblivious attitude has made the information 
networks of many Nosferatu broods frighteningly effec-
tive. Even the most paranoid princes can’t stop talking 
every time a rat scurries across the floor or a stray dog 
camps out on his haven’s doorstep.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
76
Obfuscate
Obfuscate is the most commonly used Nosferatu 
Discipline. Many neonates cannot imagine what 
it would be like to endure immortality without it. 
Unfortunately, they rarely manage to make full use 
of it, preferring to blithely wander around the streets 
unseen, impersonate the occasional mundane mortal 
and hide from danger whenever it manifests. Take a 
closer look, and you’ll see the power Obfuscate can 
grant a clever Nosferatu.
Video and Audio Surveillance: Nosferatu specialize 
in the sale of dirty little secrets. It doesn’t take a master 
of the Obfuscate Discipline to hide in a corner with a 
video camera or a microphone. All a spy of this type 
has to do is stay silent and stay in one place. These are 
exactly the parameters of the Cloak of Shadows Disci-
pline. If a neonate Nosferatu only knows this level of 
the Obfuscate Discipline, another member of his brood 
can easily move into position using Cloak the Gathering 
and rendezvous with him.
Social Chaos: Nosferatu don’t have to limit 
themselves to innocuous personas when using Mask of 
a Thousand Faces. Many legendary vampires have cre-
ated chaos by impersonating primogen, princes, mortal 
celebrities and other well-known individuals. Consider 
the turmoil that would ensue during a Toreador’s love 
affair with a mortal if his chippie saw him about town 
with someone else. What if the Brujah elder (or someone 
who looked just like him) threatened the prince with 
bodily harm? If a Nosferatu brood isn’t treated with 
respect, the threat of social chaos in the local Camarilla 
is a potent motivator.
Urban Renewal: Some Nosferatu employ the 
tactic of “social chaos” in the mortal world as well, 
especially when they’ve targeted an entire neighbor-
hood of kine. Creeps know that if a few old buildings 
are scheduled for demolition or if a house has been 
condemned, an urban neighborhood can become a 
haven for Nosferatu above ground. The process takes 
time, but consider the value of causing a riot in a poor 
neighborhood, enacting a few atrocities in the guise 
of a local policeman or taking the place of a local 
gang leader. If enough horrific acts unleash chaos in 
a neighborhood, then the chosen locale is one step 
closer to urban renewal.
Falsified Blackmail: Nosferatu often gain influ-
ence over local politicians by blackmailing them with 
incriminating evidence. Sometimes the evidence isn’t 
even real. Media-savvy Nosferatu have made a thriv-
ing trade out of using Mask of a Thousand Faces and a 
camera. While many are unable to do this with video 
cameras, the technique works surprisingly well with film. 
Song in the Dark 
Animalism Level Six
Before the clan could hide in labyrinths buried 
beneath the cities of men, Ancients relied upon 
vast caves and caverns for their survival. The most 
powerful Methuselahs didn’t limit themselves to 
the few that existed — they created new ones. 
Loremasters tell tales of vast creatures underground, 
forgotten things from the early days of the world, 
monsters that Nosferatu himself could not destroy. 
Giants in the earth, these atavisms sluggishly tun-
nel and crawl countless miles beneath the surface 
world. Although cynical and scientific Nosferatu 
(autarkis or otherwise) deny the existence of such 
creatures, human scientists cannot fully predict 
the occurrence of earthquakes and similar subter-
ranean events. 
Some Nosferatu occultists claim that only 
Nosferatu Methuselahs are potent enough to 
draw upon this power. A few insist that mighty 
vampires employ this Discipline to create sink-
holes, collapse unstable sewer tunnels or open up 
vast caverns in rural areas desperately essential to 
their descendants. The most outrageous stories 
concern entire ecosystems based around massive 
chthonic worms, subterranean leviathans or other 
burrowers beneath the Earth’s crust. Whether this 
supernatural power (if it exists at all) involves 
summoning these creatures or merely shifting 
vast amounts of earth with the power of the mind 
remains a point of conjecture. Your Storyteller 
must decide.
System: If these creatures exist, then Nosferatu 
Ancients can control them somewhat sparingly. 
A Nosferatu Methuselah should theoretically be 
able to summon and command a creature once 
each year for every five points of Willpower (or 
five Willpower Traits) he possesses. First, the vam-
pire burns these temporary points (or Traits) for 
a period of at least one month; he cannot regain 
them until this time has elapsed. The size of the 
subterranean disturbance depends on a Charisma 
+ Survival roll; the difficulty depends on how rural 
the chosen location is. (An uninhabited plot of 
land in the midst of the Sahara would be difficulty 
6; downtown Manhattan is difficulty 10.) Storytell-
ers may choose to forego game mechanics where 
Methuselahs are concerned, of course, and just 
pass around newspaper clippings of recent massive 
earthquakes throughout the world.


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
77
A picture of a local politician performing unspeakable 
acts with an unknown prostitute, a pornographic picture 
of a local celebrity or an incriminating snapshot of an 
ordinary person committing an extraordinary crime can 
be worth a fortune... even if it’s not real.
Potence
Prowess, might, vigor, intensity, puissance — no 
matter what name you describe it with, Potence is an 
impressive Discipline. Too many neonates think of 
it as a simple, brutal combat ability, but it is actually 
much more. It’s actually a sophisticated, complex and 
unpredictable combat ability... coupled with its uses in 
Nosferatu art and architecture.
Construction: Expanding a city’s sewer system takes 
more than political influence and faithful ghouls. When 
making improvements to the labyrinthine underworld 
beneath cities, Nosferatu often use Potence to assist the 
ghouls with the most difficult tasks. Tunneling through 
solid rock, moving chunks of rock and concrete or just 
collapsing a tunnel with a powerful blow are also useful 
skills in Nosferatu construction.
Destruction: Once a Nosferatu’s haven and the 
domain around it have been constructed, he must 
immediately think of methods to defend it. A com-
mon last-ditch defense involves collapsing carefully 
chosen hallways to block off an invading force. The 
same brute strength can also be used to collapse en-
tire buildings above ground. Luring an enemy into 
an unstable building and collapsing the structural 
supports is a surefire way to kill even the nastiest 
supernatural creatures. 
Sculpture: Nosferatu art often involves massive 
pieces of stone and metal. Potence allows Nosferatu 
to chip marble into statues and bend pieces of iron. 
While it may seem initially odd to create a Nosferatu 
with the Performance Ability, it does prove useful in 
such circumstances.
Wrestling: Titanic strength is even deadlier when 
the person using it is very skilled. Various legendary 
Nosferatu have put this talent to their own advantage 
by combining various styles of wrestling with the might 
of Potence. Different tactics abound. Some elders 
brawl with the sportsmanlike maneuvers of Greco-
Roman wrestling, but they can’t compete with more 
modern methods. Nosferatu wrestlers of Mexico are 
well acquainted with the lucha libre style, employing it 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
78
frequently against other supernatural creatures; there 
are hundreds of Mexican wrestling films where heroes 
battle vampires, werewolves or worse. 
Hurling Things: Why use your fists to smash your 
enemies when there are heavier things you can crush 
them with? Using an appropriate “feat of strength,” 
a Nosferatu can toss iron gates, sewer lids or even 
compact cars at his opponents. You’re never without 
a weapon when you can rip metal out of a wall. The 
next section includes some (optional) game mechan-
ics for this tactic.
Potent Combat
In the tabletop version of Vampire, massive 
improvised weapons are unwieldy; throwing an unbal-
anced, overweight chunk of anything usually requires 
a Dexterity + Athletics or Melee roll; the difficulty 
should be at least an 8 or 9. Optionally, the chosen 
target may not be required to make a Willpower roll 
to “abort to Dodge”; if a frenzying Nosferatu starts to 
pick up a sports utility vehicle, it may instead require 
a Willpower roll to do anything other than Dodging 
for cover. Check out the sidebar for a few of the more 
commonly used weapons.
In the live-action version of the game, as represented 
by Mind’s Eye Theater, such feats may be amusing, but 
should be as difficult as they are ridiculous. Socially 
roleplaying an interview with a Nosferatu elder should 
be encouraged; requiring the same player to pant and 
heave as he lifts the index card for a pickup truck over 
his head is just plain goofy. Nonetheless, if a player re-
ally wants to improvise thrown weapons, the Narrator 
may want to set up a few prop cards specifically for such 
eventualities. Any improvised weapon of this sort has 
the Traits: Unwieldy x 3; this makes hitting someone 
with such a massive weapon more difficult, but does 
not reduce the damage it does. To convert damage for 
improvised weapons, take the number of damage dice 
and divide it by two. (Or something like that.)
The Need to Feed
Stalking human prey above ground can be particu-
larly difficult for Nosferatu. Humans tend to flee from 
hideous creatures, especially ones that obviously want to 
feast on them. The Obfuscate Discipline can help, but 
Improvised Weapons for Potence
	
Feat of Strength/difficulty / damage
Sewer Lid	
	
5	
8	
6
Thrown Gate		
7	
8	
7
Motorcycle	
	
9	
9	
8
Compact Car		
11	
10	
9


Chapter Two: Inside Clan Nosferatu
79
not every vampire has it. Few Sewer Rats develop a tal-
ent for the Dominate or Presence Disciplines, which are 
so essential when Ventrue and Toreador feed. Neonate 
Nosferatu are at an even greater risk, since they don’t 
wield a great deal of supernatural power. Never fear. 
Not every Nosferatu needs to specialize exclusively in 
the Obfuscate Discipline to survive. Learning to hunt 
may be difficult at first, but vampires have centuries to 
refine their techniques.
Ghouled Slaves: Blood-addicted vitae slaves will 
do anything to sate the desires of their masters. Some 
ghouls show their devotion by bringing an occasional 
meal. By luring the hapless prey into a secretive place, 
they provide an easy opportunity for a vampire to feed. 
Why stalk up on prey unseen? The look they get in their 
eyes as they’re about get drained by a hideous monster 
is as enjoyable as the act of feeding itself.
Blood Dolls: The process of creating a blood doll is 
fairly simple. Capture a human, ghoul him, and addict 
him to your blood. Do whatever it takes to keep him 
around long enough, but nurture his blood bond with 
care. Once you’ve won his heart and soul with your 
precious vitae, you’ve produced a mortal who will al-
low you to feed from him regularly. Granted, Nosferatu 
blood dolls become physically warped and degenerate 
over time, but some humans will sacrifice anything for 
love... even their freedom.
Quell the Beast: This Animalism Discipline works 
on any sentient creature, including humans. A bestial 
Nosferatu can decide to repeatedly stalk the same al-
leyway or street corner, lulling victims into a pacified 
trance. Remember the scene in a horror movie where 
a curious teenager wanders into a place he obviously 
shouldn’t go? No sane person would every venture into 
the basement of a deserted house or investigate a sewer 
grate thrown suspiciously wide open... unless they got 
a little psychic “push,” perhaps. Repeated exposure to 
Quell the Beast can actually be addictive. Victims keep 
coming back to the same deserted alleyway over and over, 
returning with hazy memories of the ecstasy of the Kiss.
Sandmen: Elders scorn the thought of feeding off 
sleeping prey. It’s too damn simple! A stealthy vampire, 
however, may come to prefer the thrill of sneaking into 
a victim’s house at night. Legends of vampires needing 
to be invited into someone’s home are a perfect bit of 
misinformation. Just in case, make sure you plan your 
escape route carefully. Not every home has a convenient 
sewer grate nearby.
Thugs: A Nosferatu’s command of the Potence 
Discipline offers a far more brutal version of hunting. A 
thug who can knock a victim unconscious with a single 
blow can carry his prey away and feed at his leisure. 
Setting up the ambush is a little tricky, but patience 
pays off. Failed Sandmen sometimes learn to just smash 
down a door and take what they want.
Bogeymen: Feeding off children is a particularly 
vile way to survive, but needs must as the devil drives. 
Whether out of cowardice or preference, such creatures 
are responsible for countless legends of monsters lurking 
in wait for bad little children. When kids are scared out 
of their wits, parents are quick to disbelieve obviously 
delusional stories of what their predators looked like....
The Internet: We don’t need to go into too much 
detail here. Suffice to say that over the ‘Net, no one 
needs to see your face. Gathering all the information you 
can about a potential victim, from his official records 
to the secrets he betrays in an Internet chat room, can 
greatly aid your chances in finding an ideal candidate 
for thralldom, the Embrace or an occasional late-night 
snack. It’s as creepy as it is effective.
Pack Tactics: When all other methods of stalking 
prey fail, never forget the usefulness of hunting in a 
pack. Whether you decide to spend your evenings in 
a Camarilla coterie, set out into the city as part of a 
Nosferatu brood or abandon all caution to run through 
the streets with an inhuman Sabbat pack, teamwork 
pays off. Jaded vampires sometimes devise elaborate 
strategies for flushing prey from their protective cover, 
tracking them through the streets and sharing in the 
kill at the end of a job well done.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
80


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
81
Chapter Three: 
Nosferatu  
Characters
Man delights not me.
— William Shakespeare, Hamlet
Here There Be 
Monsters
Every Nosferatu is unique, but a few archetypes 
resurface again and again. The names, faces and 
backgrounds may change, but by any other name, the 
foul essence of Clan Nosferatu remains the same. To 
help you fill the sewers, slums and cesspools of your 
cities, we’ve included a few examples of the despicable 
monsters this clan has to offer. Customize their back 
stories, throw in a good dose of indulgent roleplaying, 
and you’ll be ready to trudge through the sewers in 
two shakes of a rat’s tail.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
82
Cleopatra
Quote: I’ll be out in a minute... I just need to fix my 
face....
Prelude: Once you were beautiful, but such beauty 
breeds envy in others. There was a time when men 
longed to possess you. Women longed to be you. Then 
an absolute beast ravished and destroyed you. He came 
to you in the guise of a handsome 
stranger, but when he finally got 
you alone, you found out he 
was just like all the others: a 
monster deep inside.
In life, you were 
able to manipulate 
just about anyone 
with your charm and 
good looks, but that 
tactic is no longer 
available to you. 
Other vampires 
have offered 
t o  
t e a c h 
you how 
to disguise 
yourself as 
a beautiful 
human, but the idea sickens you. Although you and your Nosferatu 
brethren are truly hideous, you are just beginning to understand com-
passion, sympathy and the pangs of conscience. You are struggling to 
comprehend something deeper in your soul; unless you do, you’ll be 
doomed to mourn your lost beauty for all eternity.
Concept: You’re a beautiful woman trapped in the body of an 
immortal monster. Every evening, when you arise from a deep sleep, 
you hope that your horrible recurrent dream will end and you’ll finally 
wake up. Yet every night, the nightmare begins again the same way. 
How you’ll react to this sudden change — with bitterness, extreme 
remorse or perhaps even cunning — depends on what lies deeper 
inside you. As someone intensely aware of how a vain and petty 
woman can get by on appearances, you’ve also got very thorough 
and unique insights into human (and vampiric) psychology.
Roleplaying Hints: You have a choice. You can return to 
the existence you had before, fooling others into thinking you 
are special because you can mirror beauty. Or, if you like, you can 
reject that utterly, trying to develop qualities you never had in your 
breathing days. Among your own kind, you have no choice but 
to present yourself as the person you really are. Other Nosferatu 
aren’t fooled by your pretense at wit or sophistication. You are a 
monster and will always be one until you can earn the respect of 
other vampires.
Equipment: fashionable purse, make-up case, black lipstick, 
shredded lingerie, broken mirror, exquisite clothes, pepper spray


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
83


Clanbook: Nosferatu
84
Advisor
Quote: Yes, sir... No, sir... Well, sir, a stake through the 
heart sounds like a good idea, but wouldn’t flaying his skin be 
a bit more effective? Yes, I’ll put someone right on that, sir....
Prelude: You never amounted to much in life. While 
you had a talent for diplomacy and demonstrated fabulous 
“people skills,” you also had a bad habit of propping up other 
people’s authority. You never had the drive to become a 
charismatic leader. You were content to be a toady, a flunky, 
the man behind the scenes who drew a steady paycheck 
and let others seize his share of fame and fortune.
You must have done something right, though, because 
you were recruited into the world of the undead. Thanks to 
the Embrace, you’re immortal, potent and supernatural... 
and nothing much has changed. You’ve started cowering 
behind a “vampire prince,” giving him advice on all sorts 
of bizarre night-to-night events. You also act as a sort of 
“manager” for other Nosferatu, implementing the prince’s 
policies. The prince takes the credit for your ideas, but 
somehow, you feel safer standing behind him than in front 
of him. After all, the princes of the world come and go, but 
toadying yes-men never seem to go out of style.
Concept: You have the prince’s ear, and for some reason 
you cannot fathom, he actually trusts you. Occasionally, he 
confides in you. Maybe it’s because you have ties to others 
of your kind, skulking creatures even more hideous than 
you. They keep you far more informed than the egotisti-
cal prince you prop up, and in exchange, you bring them 
choice tidbits of news from the prince’s chambers. 
Roleplaying Hints: Why take risks by being the man 
in charge? Ride on his coattails, and exploit the situation 
for all you can get. Hide behind a politician with power 
and promise, convince him that he can’t get by without 
your skills, bow and scrape like a stooge, and stick by him 
to the end... at least, until he fails and you have to shop 
your skills to someone else. Your survival depends on your 
chosen victim’s success. As long as you stay on the good 
side of people in power, no doubt 
you’ll be safe. Just make sure 
your tongue doesn’t get too 
black when you’re lick-
ing the prince’s boots....
Equipment: cell 
phone, Brioni business 
suit, laptop computer, 
three handkerchiefs 
(for mopping up the 
pus you ooze from 
time to time), a tin of 
shoe polish


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
85
Leatherface
Quote: You remind me of my mother. I never really 
liked my mother....
Prelude: Humans are such easy prey. You hated them 
all when you were alive, and you hate them even more now 
that you are dead. In vampiric society, you go through the 
motions of being civilized, but when you have the chance to 
stalk human beings, the urges of the Beast overtake you. Why 
take just a little blood when you hunt? Take their lives instead.
Other vampires — especially Nosferatu — must not 
learn who you really are or what you have done. If they learn 
that your soul is as repulsive as your flesh, they’ll destroy 
you immediately. Even the Sabbat wouldn’t understand 
your little hobbies. Since even the Creeps have to remain 
hidden, they wouldn’t like an obsessive killer stirring up 
the local kine. You must work especially hard to show that 
you are an upstanding member of vampiric society and 
struggle tirelessly to support your brood. Once you’ve done 
that, you’ve earned the privilege to let the Beast within you 
roam free. Rack up a body count, and hide the bodies well.
Concept: All vampires are predatory creatures; you’re 
just better at stalking and killing than most of them. Oc-
casionally, you are very ruthless but not enough to reveal 
your true nature. Each session, while you hunt, you must 
do so in secret. (Note to the Storyteller: Each 
session, the player roleplaying this 
character should write you a note 
describing his character’s atrocities 
for the session. Play them out in 
a “secret conference” if you 
like, and keep those Morality 
rolls secret.)
Roleplaying Hints: If 
you feel inexorably drawn 
to playing a vampiric serial 
killer, you probably don’t need 
advice from us. However, if 
you’ve get stuck, do what any 
great Leatherface would do: Study 
the masters. Bookstores are filled with 
tales of true crime — what motivates a Gacy, 
Bundy, Dahmer or Klebold? What makes 
people like that break down? If your head 
starts to ache too much from it all, snap your 
character back into its alternate personality: 
That carefully maintained façade is essential 
to your monster’s sanity.
Equipment: nondescript (but absolutely 
filthy) clothing, icepick, blowtorch, run-
down van (with malfunctioning seat belts 
and door locks), surgical table with restraints


Clanbook: Nosferatu
86


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
87
Initiate Loremaster
Quote: There are things in this world man was not 
meant to know. Fortunately, I am no longer a man....
Prelude: Before your Embrace, you tried to make a 
living out of studying the occult. You desperately tried to 
unearth the secrets of the universe... and it was pathetic. 
Finding an employer who recognized your specialty as 
a legitimate, marketable skill was nearly impossible. 
You scraped by while writing watered-down New Age 
paperbacks, Time-Life books of the supernatural and the 
occasional comic-book script. Of course, you leaked just 
enough of 
the Truth to attract the attention 
of the real supernatural world, 
and you’ve been studying it 
ever since from behind 
the scenes.
Since you were 
forcibly abducted 
into the world of 
vampires, you have 
been consistently amazed 
by how many other 
monsters stalk the 
night. Most 
Nosferatu 
do a brisk 
trade exchanging the secrets of Kindred society, but you hate having 
so much competition. If you’re going to make a business out of 
this, you might as well deal in rare and expensive merchandise. 
You’ve carefully sought out myths and legends about other 
supernatural creatures. Who gives a damn which mortal the 
prince is screwing this month? There are far more fascinating 
truths lurking in the night.
Concept: During character creation, you must choose 
for this character one specialty in the Occult Ability. While 
you’re well versed on a wide array of esoteric topics, you’re 
particularly good with that one. On the one hand, your 
character knows far more about it than most Kindred; on the 
other, if you gave away the darkest secrets of their societies, 
you’d be out of business in a heartbeat (if you had such a thing).
Roleplaying Hints: You pride yourself on being profes-
sional. Because you must trade with a wide range of supernatural 
beasties, diplomacy is essential to your business. While you 
spend a great deal of time consorting with other vampires, 
you receive visitors every night who wish to consult with 
you on your very specialized fields of knowledge. You prefer 
to hide your grotesque appearance as much as possible, but 
if you need to press a point, it does serve as an indelible 
reminder of the presence of the occult in the world.
Equipment: silver key to your private library and of-
fice, Victorian suit, antique fountain pen, various pieces 
of correspondence, valuable leather-bound tome


Clanbook: Nosferatu
88
Research Specialist
Quote: Hrrm. Hrrm. An undeniable statistical correla-
tion between crop circles in Indiana and cattle mutilations 
in the Chicago stockyards. Fuel up the van. We’ve got to 
go get some samples....
Prelude: You uncover secrets no one else will 
believe. When the doors of the 
library close at night, you 
go to work. While the 
ghoul janitor tends to 
the maintenance of 
your little kingdom, 
you have hours of 
quiet isolation, 
reflection and 
study. Other vam-
pires travel to Tremere 
chantries for consulta-
tions on the occult, but 
you are methodical in 
tracking down clues and hints 
of supernatural activity hid-
den in the mortal world. 
Now a coterie of 
Kindred is offering you 
a chance to venture 
further away from your private sanctum. They seem to value you for your keen 
mind and want your aid investigating supernatural phenomena throughout the 
city. One night, you’re lurking outside the park where werewolves 
make their home; the next, you’re tailing the Brujah elder to find 
out about his secret political contacts. No matter what you ob-
serve, you conclude each evening with the same solitary 
activity: retreating back into the library to peruse the 
news for more leads.
Concept: You have a gift for sorting through news of 
mortal events and finding hints of supernatural involvement. 
Other Kindred are fooled by the façades of the Masquerade, 
but like others of your clan, you aren’t tricked by mere appear-
ances. You value the solitary time you spend in your haven; you just 
happen to spend it enraptured by esoteric works of reference. When 
you’re certain that your investigation has revealed the presence of the 
occult, you rush to your coterie to ask for their help in studying the problem 
further. In return for their help, you support them with your investigative 
skills from time to time.
Roleplaying Hints: When presented with a mystery that involves 
something other than vampiric society, you are tenacious, risking every-
thing to understand the unknown. For some reason, it distracts you from 
having to cope with the fact that you, yourself, are a monster, an anomaly 
that doesn’t belong in this world. Keep searching.
Equipment: key to the library (and the tunnels beneath it), 
copious notes, spare notepad, camera with film, private stash 
of newspapers and tabloids


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
89


Clanbook: Nosferatu
90
Hive Master
Quote: ZZZZZZzzzzz! (pretty! pretty! pretty!) 
ZzzzzzZZZZZZZ!
Prelude: The Embrace shattered your mind, erasing 
the memory of your mortal life. You skulked down into 
the sewers and stayed there. Now you wait at the center 
of a swarm, sending out your beasts to gather everything 
you need. Instead of learning to disguise yourself as a 
mortal or hide from sight, you found companionship in 
the other creatures of the underworld. Unfortunately, 
you have great trouble interacting with other societies, 
whether mortal, supernatural or vampiric, so when you 
do, you prefer to use your animal allies as intermediaries.
By specializing in the Animalism Discipline, you can 
dominate an animal and use him to spy for you. Because 
you are a Nosferatu, though, animals controlled with your 
supernatural power turn vicious over time. Some even 
become physically degenerate. Such creatures are shunned 
by others of their kind (just like you) 
and come shambling back to the 
spawning pool you maintain so 
rigorously. No matter. Hun-
dreds of others are breeding 
down there, developing an 
addiction to their master’s 
blood. It’s time to take one 
of them out for a walk.
Concept: Congratulations. You’ve just considered 
playing one of the most challenging (and freakiest) 
varieties of Nosferatu: a Sewer Rat who dares not re-
veal himself to other vampires. You must choose one 
type of animal that you have been breeding in your 
spawning pool. Keep in mind that it must be able to 
pass unnoticed in the world above. Cats and dogs are 
good choices; sewer alligators look a little suspicious. 
The Storyteller will tell you the Traits your first animal 
spy has at the beginning of the game. 
Roleplaying Hints: You relate only abstractly to 
beings other than your beasts; though sentient, you are 
feral and live largely in the moment. In a tabletop game, 
when the rest of your pack or coterie is above ground, 
you must roleplay an animal psychically controlled by a 
vampire. In live-action, it’s even more challenging: You 
must find a plausible way to roleplay this animal when 
the game is not set in the sewers. Good luck.
Equipment: Your Nosferatu rarely 
ventures away from his spawning 
pool, so the only equipment he 
has is what his ghouled pets 
can drag to him. When using 
Subsume the Spirit, your equip-
ment includes a collar, a name 
tag and a swarm of fleas gorged 
on vitae.


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
91
Skin
Quote: Remember me? We were at that delightful gal-
lery opening a few weeks ago. You told such wonderful tales 
of the Old Country. Say, do be a doll and help get past this 
bouncer, will you?
Prelude: You hate yourself and what you have 
become, so you’ve learned to specialize in being other 
people. Back in the limelight of your mortal days, you 
always wanted to be an actor, but you never made it 
farther than a few drama classes. You jumped from job 
to job, but each time, you never really felt comfort-
able revealing how you felt to your 
co-workers. Instead, you lied 
frequently, fabricating a 
false past and pretending 
you knew more about 
various subjects than 
you really did.
Eventually, you 
moved to another 
city, hoping to escape 
from the tangle of 
lies you 
h
a
d 
m a d e 
out of 
your life, but lying to people gave you an adrenaline rush unlike 
anything else. Someone must have been watching over your 
shoulder because he decided to curse you with a true identity that 
was almost impossible to escape. Now you’re an unspeakably 
hideous monster, but because you can impersonate others 
with your supernatural abilities, you’ve finally become a 
consummate actor. You’ll be pursuing a wide variety of 
roles until the end of time... or until you get caught.
Concept: You’re a scam artist skilled at impersonation. 
Creeping around while invisible will eventually get other 
neonates in trouble, but you choose to hide in plain sight. You 
lead a double life, mingling with the vampires of one society while 
secretly informing another. You are a vital piece of your conspiracy’s 
information network. Whatever you do, don’t get caught.
Roleplaying Hints: Your coterie, pack or brood will prob-
ably want you to impersonate a wide variety of mortals. Make 
the most of this. Use your alternate personas to spread chaos 
and confusion, as much as you can get away with. You can 
do an amazing imitation of the prince, the leader of a local 
gang, an up-and-coming politician — just about anything with 
enough preparation. As long as you don’t have to be yourself, you 
are Everyman... or, at least, every man’s nightmare.
Equipment: Your haven includes a trunk filled with various 
props for your favorite roles. It’s also got a big album of photos from 
your previous life... and you’ve cut your face out of every one.


Clanbook: Nosferatu
92


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
93
Brood Hen
Quote: Our clan must ally to ensure our survival; the 
needs of the brood must come first!
Prelude: Before your Embrace, you were insecure enough to 
define your identity by the various groups to which you belonged. 
You had a vicious habit of playing politics and are ruthlessly 
efficient at gathering dirt on anyone who would destroy your 
authority. After your Embrace, you naturally gravitated toward 
a brood of Nosferatu desperately in need of organization. Now 
you play clan politics with an edge... and you don’t care who 
gets cut to pieces in your ascension to power.
You’re well-connected with other Nosferatu and won’t 
let anyone forget it. While you can call upon the resources 
of your local brood, you also insist that any other Nosferatu 
in the city should be an integral part of its activities. You 
speak about your “clan” as though every Sewer Rat carries 
a membership card and attends regular meetings. While 
all Nosferatu in a brood are supposed to be equals, you’re 
loyal enough to consider yourself more equal than others.
Concept: You run contrary to many of the standard 
ideas of Nosferatu society. For you, the brood must always 
come first. Your coterie will ask you to help them with 
many of their problems, but for every dilemma you solve 
for them, you must insist that they do something to help 
“the Nosferatu.” The upside of this is that you’re intimately 
familiar with all the resources the Nosferatu of your city 
have, from the slums to the sewers. 
Roleplaying Hints: While dealing with your coterie, 
you’re fairly easygoing, but you take a little too much pride 
in describing how much “Clan Nosferatu” has accomplished. 
And unfortunately, you’re far too good at trading informa-
tion for them to shut you out of the local Hostings. While 
your attitude toward politics is atypical for your clan, you’re 
far too much of an individual to let the others sway you.
Equipment: maps of a 
few insignificant sewer 
tunnels (to parcel out 
to the neonates), 
little black book, 
cell phone, 
horned-rim 
glasses


Clanbook: Nosferatu
94
Dark Crusader
Quote: I am the reflection of your sins, come to take 
you to Hell.
Prelude: Even before your Embrace, you viewed the 
world through the eyes of a pariah. Held in contempt by 
parents and peers alike, you were the target of ridicule 
and ostracism. The world and you simply found little of 
mutual liking, and you preferred the solace of escapism, 
retreating into a dreamland of obscure authors, comic 
books and fantasy.
One night, you found yourself in a situation 
all too real, as the wrong people took an exception 
to your presence. You had been beaten up before, 
but the gang beating you received was truly savage. 
Beaten beyond human endurance, you crawled 
miserably on broken hands and shattered knees, 
seeking help or perhaps just a place to die. You found 
both. Taken into the world of the Damned, you 
were re-formed from the worm you had been into a 
twisted but powerful night-moth. Now, armed with 
righteous fury, you crusade against bigots, brutes, 
rapists and others you deem as “unfit to live.”
Concept: Don’t let anyone convince you that 
the World of Darkness is painted in shades of gray, 
that the bad guys are just misunderstood, that mo-
rality is relative or that everyone has a rationale 
for what they do. They’re just trying to confuse you. 
You’ve got a talent for two things: finding “evil” and 
destroying it. Once you’ve done the first, you won’t 
hesitate to do the second. While you’re eager to apply 
a few Size 12 boots and judicious Potence to the most 
horrific problems you face, you’re also a keen (and 
overconfident) investigator.
Roleplaying Hints: You see the world in black and 
white. You may be damned for all eternity, but that’s not 
going to stop you from doing what you think is right... 
even if everyone else thinks it’s wrong. Obviously, you see 
yourself as a hero, but you’re more of a villain 
to everyone else. With your propensity for 
violence and your vigilante methods, you’ll 
stop at nothing to destroy what you don’t 
understand. You’re inexorably drawn to 
the most horrific and despicable evils 
on the planet... and won’t admit 
that you’re one of them.
Equipment: leather 
jacket, black jeans, 
heavy boots, black 
gloves, black mask 
(for added mys-
tique), length 
of chain, lead 
pipe


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
95


Clanbook: Nosferatu
96
Leper Messiah
Quote: Bend down, and let me look at you.…
Prelude: People ignored you while you were alive; they do 
it even more now that you’re dead. You almost starved to death 
while living on the street, and the coldest winter in 20 years 
almost finished you off. Life before the Embrace taught you one 
thing: The strong survive by preying on the weak. Then death 
came, and you moved up the food chain.
Who needs the sewers? You know the slums even better now 
than you did while you were alive. You’ve created a few ghouls 
who can pass throughout the city while being ignored: They’re 
all outcasts, just like you. You’ve got the beginning of a blood cult 
going; combined with your herd of the easily victimized, survival 
isn’t that difficult for you. As a matter of fact, you’ve taken to this 
scam extremely well — you’re a modern Fagin, sending your cult of 
reprobates through the streets to do your bidding. They will gladly 
destroy themselves for you, for you are like an immortal god to them.
Concept: The streets are your domain. You learned how to 
survive there when you were alive, and you have no intention 
of skulking off to the sewers now that you’re dead. As long as 
you act well outside the boundaries of proper social behavior, 
ordinary people will ignore you. As for the subhumans that live 
on the street, they’re probably a few weeks away from dying 
anyway. Soak them for as much 
blood as you can get before 
society casts them 
aside. 
As an immortal monster, you are perpetu-
ally slumming among the weakest creatures in 
the herd of human kine. Your Streetwise Ability 
reflects the essentials you need to know in order to 
get by without a haven or resources. It also gives 
you access to the word on the street, what all the 
denizens of the urban wilderness are currently 
discussing. In your years on the pavement, 
you’ve also encountered a few hardened 
survivors you don’t want to kill just yet; 
although they’re afraid of finding out 
your darkest secrets, they’ll help you get 
by... sometimes in return for a flask of your 
powerful vitae. Through the power of the 
Blood, they will all bow down to you.
Roleplaying Hints: You regard vampiric society much as 
you did mortal society in your breathing days. No matter how 
hideous, disgusting, repellent or obnoxious you are, you’ve got 
rights. Of course, your ghouled servants don’t deserve rights; 
they fell through the cracks of society a long time ago, and 
you’re doing them a favor by giving the rest of their lives 
some meaning. You don’t care if they live or die for you... 
well, until your conscience eventually catches up with you, 
but who says that’s going to happen?
Equipment: ski mask, a wide assortment of hid-
eous clothes, a duffel bag full of crap, holdout pistol, 
homemade shank, a trenchcoat that looks like it’s 
survived the Ice Age


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
97
Venerable Nosferatu
Existence as a Nosferatu is difficult, but fortunately, 
centuries of Nosferatu history serve as an example to the 
latest generation of neonates. Stories and legends are 
whispered in the depths of the sewers late at night, and 
the greatest ones involve the most powerful, legendary 
and infamous Creeps and Sewer Rats of vampiric society. 
Although a few of these monsters have met Final Death, 
they’ve done so with a style and grace that is uniquely 
Nosferatu... or, at least, in a vile and disgusting manner 
that only another Nosferatu could truly appreciate.
Baba Yaga
The Hag is dead, but her legacy lives on. In 1998, a 
legendary vampire sired by Nosferatu himself met Final 
Death, slain under the talons of Lupines. For centuries, 
she had directed her vampiric minions throughout Rus-
sia. The amount of supernatural activity in that nation 
was so great that a spiritual Shadow Curtain surrounded 
the Soviet Union, isolating ancient sacred sites from 
the rest of the world. 
The Hag’s command of Thaumaturgy was so im-
pressive that she was often mistaken for a sorceress. Her 
mastery of Obfuscate allowed her to enact grand schemes 
without attracting the attention of the mortal populace. 
As a fourth-generation vampire, she was allegedly one 
of three Nosferatu who escaped their sire’s blood bond, 
acting with a vengeance even the legendary Nictuku 
could not equal.
Now Baba Yaga is gone, the Shadow Curtain has 
fallen, and the Soviet Union has fragmented into chaos. 
Russian Nosferatu no longer need fear her; instead, 
they face the monumental task of trying to establish 
new domains, creating a series of independent broods 
across Asia. To the west lies the Camarilla, a society 
from which they have been isolated for centuries. To 
the east lie the dangerous lands of the Cathayans, who 
are eager to seize the domains Baba Yaga no longer 
protects. With the turmoil that surrounds them, most 
Russian Nosferatu have wisely decided to remain hidden 
and autarkis. They have watched one overlord die; they 
are not so eager to welcome another. A few have begun 
traveling to broods in other parts of the world. As these 
Nosferatu emissaries learn of events outside Russia, they 
tell old legends of Baba Yaga again and again.
Emmett, Autarkis Traitor
Emmett is an outsider, even among the Nosferatu. 
He owes allegiance to no coterie, brood, domain ruler 
or vampiric sect — ultimately, his only allegiance is 
to himself. This doesn’t prevent him from dealing in 
vampiric politics, since Emmett is a master at the art 
of brokering information. Camarilla, Sabbat, anarch or 
autarkis — he’ll swap legends and lore with any Nos-
feratu in desperate need of information. A loner and a 
wanderer, Emmett is polite enough to find havens in 
the domains of various Nosferatu kingdoms but also 
has a dangerous habit of neglecting to tell princes and 
archbishops about his subterranean sojourns.
Skulking through any city where the scandals are 
thick, he’ll eagerly trade data with Kindred and Cainites 
who are not Nosferatu, although he sets his prices very 
steep. Emmett can find out just about anything, but he 
always asks for a favor in return, usually involving an 
investigation of dark secrets that could never be traced 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
98
back to him. On a few occasions, coteries and packs have 
tried to offer him false information... and in return, have 
found themselves the target of calumny and scandal in 
every city where a Nosferatu is present.
As a neonate, Emmett has also been very active 
in a Nosferatu computer node called SchreckNET, an 
elaborate data hierarchy where Sewer Rats and Creeps 
alike trade rumors and innuendo. Spending much of his 
night online, he can access vast amounts of lore from 
across Europe and North America, lurking in count-
less chat rooms and virtual domains simultaneously. 
Like any good Nosferatu hacker, he’s also learned to 
construct false identities in online conversations... 
and is terribly good at spotting the ones used by other 
cybercreeps.
Recent events have put Emmett in the nacreous 
limelight, mainly because he claims to be the only 
survivor of an infamous Hosting held in the depths 
of Manhattan’s underground. A Hosting of Nosferatu 
storytellers and historians turned to tragedy when a 
series of tunnels collapsed in the kingdom’s sanctum 
sanctorum. While no one has found the bodies — or 
the perpetrators — Emmett claims that the gathering 
was betrayed to the legendary Nictuku. Allegedly, a 
vengeful group of autarkis Nosferatu was responsible, 
but such treachery was unthinkable among the vampires 
of the clan... until now.
Emmett’s outspoken position has gained him enmity 
both in the Camarilla and the Sabbat, especially among 
independent and anarch Nosferatu. Thus, he has been 
forced to hide from many of the influential vampires of 
his own clan, becoming an infamous autarkis himself. 
Desperate to gain enough reputation and information 
to get others to believe him, Emmett has once again 
taken to trading information outside the clan and is 
eager for any news of suspicious activities below ground. 
Woe be to the unfortunate coterie who decides to 
explore a subterranean labyrinth in exchange for the 
secrets he possesses....
Caliban, Sabbat Crusader
While Creeps and Sewer Rats may occasionally 
conspire below ground, they are still at war in the surface 
world. Truces conducted between individuals fall apart 
when Sabbat crusaders muster in the barrens outside of 
a Camarilla domain. While diplomatic Sabbat Nosferatu 
may convince a brood of Camarilla Rats to exchange 
dark secrets, other Creeps are infamous wherever they 
travel and are trusted by no one outside of their own 
sect. So it is with Caliban, crusader extraordinaire for 
the Sword of Caine.
The tunnels beneath the domains of powerful 
princes are often well-defended against outsiders, but 
other Nosferatu are skilled at seeing through layers of 
traps, insidious obfuscation and ingenious strategies of 
defense. Caliban is a Sabbat ductus who specializes in 
subterranean raids, no matter how dangerous. In her 
rise to infamy and power, she has led at least a dozen 
War Parties through the netherworlds of Camarilla 
cities. Her body count not only includes a few choice 
examples of Kindred nobility but a few other, unknown 
monsters lurking in the sewers, from clutches of ghouled 
albino alligators to ruthless shapechanging rats, from 
vast spore-infested fungal chambers to hideous cults 
of subterranean ghouls. Caliban fights at the vanguard 
of her pack, accepts no quarter and demands fanatical 
bloodlust from all who follow her into battle.
Khalid
While the Assamites may have established the 
most influential clan in shadowed Araby, they are by 
no means the only one. Khalid of Clan Nosferatu is 
one of the most notable Arabian Cainites. Although 
he has long since joined the politics of the West — and 
still serves as the Nosferatu primogen of Chicago — his 
legacy is inseparably intertwined with the history of 
the Middle East.
Before his Embrace in 1191, Khalid was a bloody 
butcher who easily lived up to the hideous reputation 
Christian knights attributed to Muslim warriors. Few 
could match his appetite for atrocity, for Khalid freely 
performed cruel deeds in service to his god. The Cru-
sades brought many Camarilla Kindred to the Holy 
Land for the first time. Among them was Alexius, a 


Chapter Three: Nosferatu Characters
99
Byzantine Nosferatu and former prelate of the Eastern 
Orthodox Church. Alexius believed that the only way 
to weaken the paynim nations was to corrupt and suborn 
its leaders through the Embrace. Alexius, fascinated by 
Khalid’s extreme cruelty, rewarded it by baptizing him 
into darkness.
Khalid, horrified at the curse bestowed upon him, 
exacted his rage on his own soldiers before fleeing 
into the desert. There he starved himself of blood 
as penitence for his cruel life. The intervention of 
a reclusive Jewish hermit saved the neonate, and 
Khalid, starving for an explanation of the mysteries 
he had encountered, began to study the occult under 
the old man’s tutelage. At first, Khalid immersed 
himself in gematria, the Kabbala and other forms of 
mysticism. His search for meaning eventually led him 
to the myth of Golconda. This vision then became 
an unlifelong quest for him.
For six centuries, Khalid wandered the world; along 
the way, he witnessed the best and worst examples of 
the Camarilla’s meddling in human history. By the end 
of the 19th century, his search led him to the city of 
Chicago, where he had heard of an Inconnu slumber-
ing beneath the city. Allegedly, this creature bestowed 
hints of Golconda to his petitioners. Khalid sought 
wisdom; instead, he found a city still reeling from the 
Great Fire of 1871.
Khalid’s carefully nurtured morality compelled him 
to help rebuild the city. After helping a local brood 
restore their underground kingdom, he was drawn 
into the politics of the local Kindred, from the reign 
of Prince Maxwell to the fall of the infamous Prince 
Lodin. While Khalid has become a master of vampiric 
politics, he is now ready to leave Chicago again, and 
he is hungry for any knowledge of Golconda that he 
can find. For true Nosferatu martyrs, politics are but 
a diversion to fill the empty nights of eternity. Khalid 
watches and waits for another chance to pursue the 
deepest of vampiric mysteries.
Malachite
Throughout the Dark Ages, Constantinople played 
a pivotal role in the history of European Kindred. While 
many vampiric historians are eager to regale listeners 
with the legend of Michael, the Byzantine Methuselah 
of Clan Toreador, they typically forget the hidden his-
tory of his city. Medieval Constantinople had one of the 
most extensive systems of viaducts and storm tunnels 
in all of Europe, and hidden within them, Malachite 
of Clan Nosferatu has watched the secret history of the 
Eastern European Kindred.
Malachite was the chosen name of Maleki, a 
former prelate of Byzantium. As a talented scholar 
of the occult, he had entered a blood oath with Mag-
nus, a powerful Lasombra who hid in the shadows 
of the Eastern Orthodox Church. Magnus offered 
him a position of great power, but it depended upon 
Maleki’s forced acceptance of religious doctrine he 
could not support. Maleki was a staunch supporter 
of Iconoclasm: Simply put, he believed that religious 
worship required the veneration of icons. After see-
ing many monks forced from the city for espousing 
this belief, he publicly decried such oppression as an 
obvious attempt to usurp their political influence. 
Maleki’s bold stance earned Magnus’ scorn, and the 


Clanbook: Nosferatu
100
Lasombra punished the prelate. Instead of killing 
Maleki outright, the Lasombra forced his apprentice’s 
Embrace at the hands of a diseased Nosferatu.
As Maleki contemplated his cruel fate and hid-
eous visage, he underwent a profound psychological 
transformation. His punishment did not reduce his 
commitment, but instead made him a martyr for his 
cause. Renaming himself Malachite, he acted as the 
“Rock of Constantinople,” continuing to war with 
Magnus for control of the Orthodox Church. Magnus 
made a grave error, not realizing that while a Nosferatu’s 
Embrace may break a lesser man, many so-called “Sewer 
Rats” have found new reserves of spiritual strength in 
the depths of their despair.
The years that followed brought turmoil to the 
Orthodox Church, but these religious disputes were 
soon eclipsed by political upheaval. Malachite has seen 
firsthand the fall of Constantinople to the Turks and its 
transformation to a city where Islam has overshadowed 
the Eastern Orthodox faith. Yet stubbornly, he has re-
mained in what is now Istanbul. His epic adherence to 
his religious principles has made him an anachronism, 
but he serves the Divine today just as reverently as he 
did centuries ago.
In the modern age, the extensive waterways beneath 
Istanbul are still dominated by the Nosferatu. Above 
ground, Istanbul’s Kindred are predominately Muslim, 
but the Nosferatu who have remained hidden have kept 
their religious beliefs secret from the surface vampires 
for centuries. The broods beneath Istanbul reflect a 
wide array of faiths, and the underworld’s population 
reflects the religious evolution of the city. Despite dif-
ferences of faith, the Nosferatu are united by a common 
cause: the maintenance of their underground kingdom. 
While the world above continues to change, Malachite 
remains steadfast in his faith and continues to pray as 
he did centuries ago. The Rock of Constantinople has 
not been moved.
Zelios
The Nosferatu are known for more than just 
their ability to trade secrets. Because they must hide 
themselves from the world of men, they must also 
construct hidden places where they can survive. 
Throughout their history, they have influenced the 
architecture of human cities around the world, subtly 
altering the plans of major buildings to accommodate 
their own kind. The best known historical example 
of this is the work of Zelios, a Master Mason known 
for his architectural skills throughout both the Old 
World and the New World.
Zelios never took credit for the buildings he 
altered. He did, however, possess the ability to look 
at any architectural creation and devise subtle ways 
to improve it. After his Embrace, with all of eternity 
before him, he dedicated himself to the study of ar-
chitecture and the perfection of his craft. In the 12th 
century, the Kindred of Europe made their homes 
in vast castles, sometimes the very castles where 
mortal nobility lived. By dominating mortals and 
ghouling their workers, vampires sometimes created 
hidden rooms where humans dared not tread. With 
an intuitive knowledge of both architecture and the 
occult science of geomancy, Zelios became famous 
throughout Europe for improving many of the con-
tinent’s most notable castles.
Intrigue eventually forced Zelios from the Old World 
to the New World, where he was again commissioned 
to design elaborate structures for the Kindred. After a 
brief (and disastrous) attempt at politics as a Nosferatu 
primogen, he began a thriving career expanding and 
elaborating on the sewer systems of major cities. With 
the same care he lavished upon castles above ground, 
he manipulated his mortal pawns to make alterations 
to labyrinths below ground. His most elaborate effort 
includes many of the subway tunnels and sewer systems 
of New York, although sadly, much of his creation has 
since fallen into the hands of the Sabbat. Nonetheless, 
despite the distractions of intrigue, politics, occult de-
ception and personal treachery, he has spent centuries 
mastering the art of architecture. His legacy lies in brick 
and mortar beneath the greatest cities of North America.


™
Appearance: 0.  
Cannot improve Appearance with 
experience points.
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


HIDEOUS HORRORS...
Of all the Kindred, the Nosferatu most resemble the Beasts they 
hide within. But the clan is far more than a motley assembly of twisted 
freaks. From their first nights to their modern incarnation as informants 
and spies, the Sewer Rats have as many secrets of their own as they 
have gathered from other Kindred. Up from the storm drains and 
tunnels they scuttle, but whether as ally or foe remains to be seen.
AND THE CREATURES THEY FEAR
Clanbook: Nosferatu complements the clan’s appearance in the 
revised edition of Vampire: The Masquerade. All-new information 
accompanies a reexamination of earlier concepts, allowing players 
and Storytellers to add as much freakish depth to their characters as 
they like.
CLANBOOK: NOSFERATU INCLUDES:
• The history and society of the Nosferatu clan
• Information on the clan’s underground kingdoms
• New Merits, Flaws and Backgrounds
HIDEOUS HORRORS...
Of all the Kindred, the Nosferatu most resemble the Beasts they 
hide within. But the clan is far more than a motley assembly of twisted 
freaks. From their first nights to their modern incarnation as informants 
and spies, the Sewer Rats have as many secrets of their own as they 
have gathered from other Kindred. Up from the storm drains and 
tunnels they scuttle, but whether as ally or foe remains to be seen.
AND THE CREATURES THEY FEAR
Clanbook: Nosferatu complements the clan’s appearance in the 
revised edition of Vampire: The Masquerade. All-new information 
accompanies a reexamination of earlier concepts, allowing players 
and Storytellers to add as much freakish depth to their characters as 
they like.
CLANBOOK: NOSFERATU INCLUDES:
• The history and society of the Nosferatu clan
• Information on the clan’s underground kingdoms
• New Merits, Flaws and Backgrounds
PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-56504-266-2
WW2354  $14.95 U.S.
