CLANBOOK BRUJAH
WW2351
TM


Contents
1
™
By Justin Achilli
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Brujah
2
Credits
Written and Developed by: Justin Achilli
Mind’s Eye Theatre Systems by: Deird’re Brooks
Editor: James Stewart
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten
Interior Art: Mike Danza, Steve Ellis, Michael Gaydos, 
Leif Jones, and Chris Shy 
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten
Special Thanks
Chris “Young Cameron” McDonough, for the digitally edited 
works in progress (with sound effects).
Mike “Suburbia” Tinney, for dragging the time-honored 
custom of karaoke into the depths.
Becky “Dominatrix” Jollensten, for literally whipping the 
old copier into shape.
Phil “Ickybod” Boulle, for starting with calzones and ending 
with bottled American Bud with a brief stop at Sleepy Hollow 
in the middle.
Steve “Bane Mummy” Wieck, for making the servants of 
Apophis all wussy.
Fat Bollocks
The coffee-spilling, bathroom-defiling, trash-stacking Shinty.
© 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Re-
production without the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for 
blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal 
use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire 
the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, World of Darkness and 
Aberrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith 
the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckon-
ing, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, 
Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Guide to the Camarilla, 
Guide to the Sabbat, Vampire Storytellers Handbook and 
Clanbook Brujah are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and 
text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product in 
these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright 
concerned.


Contents
3
Contents
A Night Like Any Other	
4
Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict	
12
Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah	
34
Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Rank	
70
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Brujah
4


A Night Like Any Other
5
A Night Like  
Any Other
If I hadn’t crashed my car, I might not be a vampire.
I remember standing on the street corner, waiting for a bus, thinking, “Jesus, does it 
always rain in this city?” That was the night I died. When I look back on it now, I think 
of it like all those other rainy nights — as if God personally punctuated another forma-
tive chapter of my life with rain because he thought the symbolism hadn’t yet been beaten 
to death. It rained when my girlfriend dumped me (“It’s not you, it’s me”). It rained when 
they diagnosed my mother with lung cancer and it rained when I went to the hospice to see 
her. It rained the day I wrecked my car, which is why I was waiting for a bus in the first 
place. Cause and effect is a strange thing; if I didn’t have to wait for the bus, would my 
sire have found me?
I had just stepped into the bus-stop kiosk. I collapsed my umbrella and shook the 
water from my coat, doing both carefully so as not to spray the guy sitting on the bench. 
The kiosk had one of those backlit mini-billboard ads — a bright yellow sign advertis-
ing some Web site. The other guy sat in front of it, the light from the sign making him look 
jaundiced. We exchanged empty pleasantries, consciously avoiding eye contact and 
real conversation, just like everyone else in the city. Those rare times you do make eye 
contact with someone, he’s invariably some street lunatic, begging for money or waiting to 
stab you between the fifth and sixth rib. 
I checked my watch — 6:27. It was winter, so it had already been dark for about an 
hour. I like that, or I guess it’s more appropriate to say I liked it. But anyway, I figured 
that I still had a good nine minutes before the bus showed up. With any luck, I could 
make it to the deli across the street and be back in time for the next bus.


Clanbook: Brujah
6
“Ain’t never going to happen,” said a voice from the end of the kiosk.
“I beg your pardon?” I asked. Dammit, I thought to myself, you answered. Now he’s 
going to talk to you.
“I said, it ain’t never going to happen. You want to run over there and pick up a sand-
wich or a newspaper or something and make it back in time to catch the bus. You know better 
than that. The second you step into that store, the bus’ll come. Fate.”
I looked him over, preparing a devastating smirk of dismissal. He was one of those 
weird, arty types with frosted-lens glasses, straight-legged pants and a clingy shirt — either 
a starving artist or a millionaire Internet maverick. Well, at least he wasn’t a derelict. And 
he had a point.
Still, it bothered me that I had been so transparent. Perhaps he was just exceptionally 
perceptive, but it hasn’t been my experience that overestimating people  
paid off.


A Night Like Any Other
7
“Was I that obvious?” I asked.
“It’s not that you’re easy to read. You just carry yourself with a bearing that says you 
want more out of life and you’re willing to take a risk to get it.”
Damn! I should have seen this coming. He was trying to rope me into some marketing 
scheme or talk me into purchasing a time-share or something.
“Don’t get pissed off. It was a compliment — most people you see at bus stops are just 
going from home to work or from work to home, you know? It’s all they want to do — make 
ends meet. You, though. You’re different. You look forward when you walk, not down. You 
shook the water off your jacket instead of letting it make you miserable. You wanted to pick 
up your magazine but still catch the bus, so you’ve obviously got somewhere to be.”
What the hell was this? It almost made me laugh. Here I was, trying to get my sandwich 
(not magazine) and make it home in time to see Jeopardy! and this guy was making me out 
to be some high-powered overachiever from a Tom Wolfe book.
“But you don’t see it in yourself. You don’t let yourself want more.”
A thunderhead broke and the rain came pouring down harder than before.
	
	
	
	
*	
	
	
*	
	
	
*
I woke to scratching at my window. I didn’t think to be scared. If I had thought about it 
for a moment, I’d have ignored it, because my apartment is on the sixth floor; it could have 
only been birds or rats. I didn’t think, though, and bolted upright when I heard the noise.
It was the guy from the bus stop.
He crouched on the sill outside, arms outstretched above his head, knees bent, legs 
dangling in the air. The ledge was only about six inches wide, but he seemed comfort-
ably balanced.
I should have screamed or ran. Called the police. Anything. I couldn’t. He waved me 
over to him. I couldn’t resist. He motioned for me to open the window, a growing smile cross-
ing his face, showing more and more teeth as I dumbly followed his instructions. As the 
window came open, I heard the rain outside.
“It’s fucking soaking out here. Invite me in,” he said. So I did.


Clanbook: Brujah
8
My guest clambered through the win-
dow, now wearing a hip-length leather 
coat and a pair of creased wool pants. 
He hadn’t changed his shirt from before, 
but now I could see the bold outlines of 
muscle beneath. He wasn’t bulky, just 
defined, as if all of the extraneous fat 
that would have been on a typical person 
had been flensed away, leaving only what 
was vital.
The bizarre circumstances had finally 
begun to register in my tired mind. A man 
I had met at a bus station had climbed 
through my sixth-story window because I 
had asked him in.
“You think I’m wrong about you, don’t 
you?” he asked, still smiling.
“Wait… what do you mean?” I replied 
awkwardly, realizing just how much trouble 
I had brought upon myself. I inched back 
toward my bedroom door.
His smile had the features of a hunt-
er, sharp and toothy. Even his eyes had 
the red glow of a predator, not the pale 
green glimmer of prey. He advanced, 
every step a lithe, purposeful motion, 
like a jungle cat on a Discovery Channel 
special.
“You think you’re satisfied where you 
are? Wanting more than this little life of 
yours makes you unhappy, so you ignore 


A Night Like Any Other
9
it. But you’re scared — scared that I can see it.” He continued slinking forward as I 
stumbled backward, bumbling my way down the hall and into the kitchen. The floodlight from 
the billboard across the street reflected into the room, making it less dim than it should have 
been. It was a cold, sterile light, inorganic and unflattering; it made my guest look posi-
tively ghoulish.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about. I don’t want anything. This apartment’s 
fine, and I have a decent job.” My voice quavered, sounding more like a sob as 
I rationalized myself to this dauntless freak. “I get all the channels. I’ve got my 
401(k).…”
I scrabbled across the kitchen counter, grabbing a Sabatier chef’s knife, but sank to 
my knees on the linoleum. My eyes filled with tears. I didn’t really know what I was doing 
with the knife.
“Are you going to stab me? Why? Because you hate yourself? That’s a stupid reason 
to hurt me, isn’t it?”
I nodded. The intruder placed his foot on my shoulder and shoved me down. I 
tumbled backward from my kneeling position, landing unceremoniously on my ass, still 
clutching the knife. My will had vanished, and I sucked in gasping breaths like a child 
crying himself to suffocation.
“Take that knife and do what you need to do. I’ll run a bath for you.” As he turned his 
back to me, I sprang from my clumsy position. Burying the in his kidney, I slumped to the 
ground, not even caring that he still stood. As I lay on the floor in a pool of my own tears, 
 I heard the knife clatter on the floor beside my head. I cringed at the sound and the tang 
of the blood.
The man whom I had just stabbed in the back walked down the hall, past my bedroom, 
and ran a bath. Before long, steam billowed from the bathroom doorway. My guest re-
turned to my side.
“Come on, then. No need to delay this.” He picked me up under my arms, handed 
the knife back and gave me a push down the hallway. As I approached the bathroom, 
the trail of his blood grew fainter and fainter, as if the wound had closed itself while 
he walked.


Clanbook: Brujah
10
As I stumbled down the hall, I knew that what I was doing was crazy. Still, I knew that 
death was better than what I had. Before I made it to the bathroom, I used the knife to 
score my wrists. Like my tormentor’s bloodstains in reverse, I left a small trickle at first 
that grew from a few spatters into a murky, viscous trail. Dropping the knife on the tiled 
bathroom floor, I climbed into the tub and died.
	
	
	
*	
	
	
	
*	
	
	
	
*
Thunder woke me, which made no sense. At first I thought I had dreamed it all, but my 
guest’s sardonic voice soon put my hopes of that to rest.
“Welcome back.”
I was in my bed. The window was closed and the clock blinked that annoying “12:00” over 
and over — the power had gone out at some point. I felt a warm, rusty nausea in my gut.
“What happened?” I asked.
“Well, that’s a long story. I have brought you among the Kindred, but I needed to be 
sure you wanted it first.”
“So you made me kill myself? You son of a bitch…” I lost all my energy yelling at him, but I 
could feel a red haze rising in the back of my mind. I didn’t even know what he was talking about, 
but it pissed me off. “What the fuck is the matter with you?” The red haze kept rising. “You come 
to my house, torture me and then turn me into some kind of… some… what the fuck is this!”
“That’s my boy! That’s the old Brujah spirit! It’s not fair, is it? What are you going to 
do about it?”
“Screw you! What right do you have—“
“Spare me the drama-queen dialog. You knew what I was when I asked you to open the 
window for me. You wanted this.…”
“What the hell are you talking about? I don’t want this! I didn’t ask you to…”
“Make you a vampire?” 
“I don’t even believe in vampires!”
“That’s funny. You sure act like one.” He nodded his head to one side, indicating the 
corner of the bedroom.
In the corner lay the body of my neighbor, a Hispanic community college student. Her 
throat had been torn open, leaving ragged strips that dangled unwholesomely from the white 
and red marbling of he muscle beneath. Smeared blood streaked the front of her ruined 
body. Her blouse had been crudely torn and wrenched sideways. The mouth hung open. 
Glassy eyes peered at the room, seeing nothing.


A Night Like Any Other
11
I had killed her — the nausea in my stomach was her blood warming me from within. I 
vomited. Blood roared out of my mouth and all over the sheets.
“Don’t waste it, shithead.” Like a bolt, he had risen from his seat and forced my face 
down into the bloody mess. “Now take it back in. That’s a good boy.”
Forcing the sick back down again, I continued to retch, this time giving up less of the de-
licious fluid. It was disgusting — orgasmic pleasure from swallowing mouthfuls of blood.
“Keep it down. You’re going to need that where you’re going.”
“What? Where am I going?” I looked at the creature in a panic as he jerked me from 
my bed and hurled a handful of clothes at me.
“Come on — it’s time for everyone to meet the new Kindred in town. Damn, if you can do 
this to yourself, just think of what you’ll be able to do to someone who pisses you off! 
“Oh, and bring your raincoat.”


Clanbook: Brujah
12


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
13
Chapter One: 
Millennia  
of Conflict
This kind of experience
is necessary for the learning.
—The Venus in Furs, “Baby’s On Fire”
How far the Brujah have fallen! How shiftless and 
impotent they are!
Such are the common impressions held by members 
of other clans, from the elders who remember previous 
Brujah dispositions to the neonates who stumble into 
anarchic Brujah domains. As with any such simple 
generalizations, though, these are not altogether true. In 
fact, more than anything else, the history of the Brujah 
has marked them as agents of change, perhaps more so 
than any other Kindred. While Ventrue and Lasombra 
tighten their talons around their ever-dwindling hold-
ings in the modern nights, as the Toreador squander 
unlife with debauches reminiscent of the aristocracies 
of old, as the Nosferatu scuttle through their timeless 
subterranean warrens, the Brujah evolve. From the proud 
philosopher-kings of Biblical times to the prophets and 
revolutionaries of the Final Nights, the Brujah have 
always embodied a current zeitgeist. If the Brujah are 
raging fiends, it is because that is what the world now 
demands of them.
The story of the Brujah reads like a shadow account 
of human history. Every major conflict in the World of 
Darkness has likely had a Brujah on one side or the other. 
This doesn’t mean that every battle fought for the sake 
of the Thirty Years’ War had undead participants, but 
that some Brujah supported the Catholics while others 
supported the Calvinists. And that’s only on the surface. 
Like mortals and often more so, the childer of Caine 
harbor hidden agendas. Those Brujah involved in the 
Thirty Years’ War may well have had no religious parti-
sanship at all, but may have supported German reform, 
Dutch mercantilism, or any other cause or combination 
of causes. As long as people have walked the earth, and 
as long as the Kindred have stalked among them, the 
Brujah have agitated, argued for change, effected it, or 
been left to lick their wounds in the aftermath of their 
failed revolutions.
What do the Kindred truly know of the Brujah, 
though? What do the Rabble know about themselves? 
History blends seamlessly into legend when the 


Clanbook: Brujah
14
Brujah are involved, and some secrets may never 
be revealed.
To this end, there’s no such thing as a concise his-
tory of Clan Brujah. The clan’s annals are nothing so 
much as a survey of individual exploits. Look, then, 
upon the greatest achievements and basest treacheries 
of the Learned Clan.
The Second City
As far back as anyone claims to remember, the 
history of the Brujah is fraught with controversy. Most 
Brujah believe that their legendary progenitor was 
himself a rebel. Of the Third Generation, Brujah may 
have incited the parricide of the Second Generation. 
Many believe that the other members of the Third 
Generation considered Brujah a troublemaker — they 
made him a scapegoat for their own crimes because 
other Cainites believed that Brujah readily committed 
any atrocity that came to his mind. By various legends 
mad, bloodthirsty, afflicted with multiple personalities, 
or simply vicious beyond his peers’ comprehension, 
Kindred apocrypha is riddled with tales of Brujah’s 
depredations.
One of the more common stories is that of Bru-
jah and the wine seller. In the Second City, after 
Caine had left his petty childer to bicker amongst 
themselves, Brujah awoke with a powerful thirst, 
more terrible than normal, and sought out a wine 
merchant to buy a sanguinary potable to soothe 
him. When he arrived, the wine merchant thought 
he recognized him.
“Good evening, traveler of the night, and welcome to my 
tent. Sample any of my wares you wish, for are you not the one 
known as [Brujah]?”
The Cainite must have been in a contentious mood, or up to 
some villainy, because instead of telling the truth, he lied to the 
wine seller.
“No, peasant, I am not [Brujah], but his brother, [Malkav], and 
my thirst pains me greatly. I have no need to taste your wines; just 
give me your most potent.”
The merchant responded (as these were mystical times, when 
the Kindred gods walked among men and could be spoken to, albeit 
deferentially), “Are you sure, master? For I have seen your face 
before and I am almost certain that when we met, you introduced 
yourself as [Brujah].”
“No, dirty lout, I have already told you to whom you are speak-
ing. As plain as the stars, I am the brother of [Brujah], [Arikel]. 
Now fetch my wine!”
“But, sir, you just told me that you are my master [Malkav], 
and now you claim to be his brother [Arikel], whom I believe to 
be a woman, though I have never met her.” The wine merchant 
grew flustered, but knew his place and pleaded as diplomatically 
as he could.


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
15
“Devil take your beard, wine seller! Not only do you not bring 
me the goods you purport to sell, but you doubt my honesty and my 
bearing in the same breath! As surely as I am the son of [Zillah], 
I will kill you!” And with that, Brujah slew the wine seller, drank 
his blood and took the wine he sought. He left double the price of 
the wine, for the merchant’s widow to find.
This story illustrates how the Kindred of the 
Second City abused the mortals with impunity and 
the hazards of not accepting their supremacy. No 
one knows why Brujah chose to torment and finally 
kill the wine seller, but he exercised his rights under 
the Second City’s law. If this tale is true, it answers 
other questions, such as why the other members of 
the Third Generation mistrusted Brujah, and why 
they might have chosen to saddle him with the guilt 
for their own misdeeds.
Of course, as with any consideration of the Third 
Generation, other accounts of Brujah vary. In the par-
able “Brujah and the Three Coins,” the Antediluvian 
appears in a much more compassionate light, paying 
the magistrate’s legal fees for a destitute stonemason 
with “a coin for justice, a coin for fairness, and a coin 
for virtue.” In other tales, he appears as the passionate 
advocate for change so many of his lineage affect, as is 
the case in “Brujah and the Dead King.”
Running contrary to the rebellious image so often 
attributed to the Antediluvian is the revisionist impres-
sion that a few Brujah uphold. These Kindred claim that 
Brujah was in fact an extremely conservative Cainite, 
calm and logical. They offer other interpretations of the 
parables: With his three coins, Brujah was doing nothing 
more than paying for justice as the wealthy sometimes 
had to do for the poor in early civilizations; in “Brujah 
and the Dead King,” he saw the need for stability and 
placed someone on the throne to keep the state from 
degenerating into anarchy.
Of course, both positions rely heavily on the one 
undeniable fact that arises when dealing with Ante-
diluvians — no one can ever know for certain. Even 
the fundamental assumptions one makes are based on 
hearsay at best, which significantly affects the posi-
tion most Rabble take on the matter of Brujah’s most 
infamous progeny.
Troile
A figure surrounded in as much mystery as Brujah 
himself, Troile represents for many Rabble what has 
become the modern embodiment of the clan.
Sources discussing Troile vary greatly, even on the 
matter of the childe’s gender. The Methuselah Meneleus 
refers to his sire as “he,” while other Kindred Embraced 
while Troile presumably still walked the land refer to 
“her.” A few accounts even specify that Troile had no 
gender, or that it changed at whim. Because the majority 
of accounts make Troile masculine, this text assumes 
such to be the case.
In any event, the tales of Troile’s exploits have more 
in common with the modern Brujah mindset than the 
conflicting accounts of Brujah. Most Brujah accept that 
their lineage truly descends from this figure, instead of 
his equally mythical sire, for one reason: foul diablerie. 
Troile committed the Amaranth upon his sire, which 
is one of the most popular reasons accepted for the 
start of the kinslayer wars that ultimately destroyed 
the Second City.
Troile’s short temper was also legendary, cor-
responding to the modern Brujah’s propensity for 
frenzy. Pervasive rumors attribute a cold, detached 
demeanor to Troile’s sire, which may explain why 
Brujah Embraced him — maybe he sought a dif-
ferent viewpoint, or perhaps the Embrace resulted 
from a simple attraction of opposites. The Book of 
Nod describes the Brujah as the “Learned Clan,” 
though none can say whether this refers to the 
brood of Brujah or the descendents of Troile. Go-
ing forward from the time of Troile and the Second 
City, the Brujah were still quite often philosophers, 
poets and historians as well as warriors. In fact, the 
Curse of Troile — the clan’s propensity for rage — 
may be one of the more backhanded blights Caine 
attributed to his childer, much like the Nosferatu’s 
reputed ugliness to atone for their progenitor’s van-
ity. Instead of being left to watch and record their 
world objectively, Caine may well have cursed the 
childer of Troile with wild passion.
The most disturbing legends of Troile owe much to 
the oral history of the period. Few stories place Troile 
and Brujah together at any time — the Kindred have 
no accounts of, for example, Troile’s Embrace or the 
sire explaining the Curse of Caine to his childe. Skep-
tics among the clan speculate that Brujah and Troile 
are the same Kindred — Brujah may have suddenly 
needed to change his identity or hide from some terrible 
foe, and fabricated his own diablerie to corroborate 
his disappearance. The possibility, while remote, is 
not altogether inconceivable: The inconsistencies 
in reports of Troile’s gender may have resulted from 
Brujah changing his appearance while he adapted to 
his new identity. The radical shift in personality from 
“sire” to “childe” may have come in response to the 
new identity, or may stem from a curse bestowed by 
the First Vampire.


Clanbook: Brujah
16
Most reasonable Brujah dismiss this tale as 
absurd. They posit that Troile committed a great 
treachery for which their clan atones nightly or, an 
account popular among Sabbat, that the war against 
the Antediluvians began long ago, justifying their 
Great Jyhad.
By all modern belief, Troile has long since met 
the Final Death, if he, she or it ever existed at all. In 
this, the Brujah share the ideology of the Camarilla 
— Troile is simply their own version of the creation 
myth, intended to explain the twilight before re-
corded history.
The Division of Blood
One of the most pervasive of Brujah rumors 
concerns the different lineages spawned by these two 
presumably separate Cainites. The general consensus 
is that those Kindred calling themselves descend from 
Troile, as described above.
Some Kindred maintain that apart from Troile, 
Brujah Embraced certain other Kindred who sur-
vived the former’s treachery and Embraced broods 
of their own. Known through rumor as the “first 
brood” and the “True Brujah,” these elusive Kindred 
spark controversy and fear with the merest whisper 
of their passing.
Of course, few Kindred have ever met any 
verifiable members of this secret bloodline. While 
Gehenna draws nearer, reports of the True Brujah 
have arisen with alarming frequency, but these 
accounts are secondhand, false, or impossible to 
authenticate.
The rumors have a consistency, however, which 
even cynics have to consider. Self-avowed experts and 
Kindred historians sometimes attribute True Brujah 
with participation in the elusive “Black Hand,” a sect 
within the Sabbat that has been confused with the 
entire sect in the past. The relationship between this 
fabled Black Hand and the Sabbat itself is unknown — 
some maintain that the Black Hand is merely another 
name for the Sabbat while others insist that it is an 
autonomous body. Still others hypothesize that the 
Black Hand is an entirely independent entity and the 
only one to which the True Brujah belong. Not to 
be outdone, some hysterical Kindred tell grave tales 
of the invisible sect’s collapse and the subsequent 
flight of the True Brujah to the lands of their origin, 
northern Africa.
Lacking definitive proof, the ultimate fate of the 
True Brujah remains half myth, half speculation.


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
17
Fabled Carthage
Tied inextricably to the demeanor of the clan is the 
fate of Carthage, a once-thriving African port located 
on the Mediterranean Sea. Karthadasht, by 600 B.C., 
had become the capitol of the Phoenician civiliza-
tion, and its history before that dates back perhaps 
150 years, though some legends place its origins even 
earlier. To hear those Brujah who spent part of their 
unlives in Carthage, the city was a utopia in which 
Kindred and kine coexisted in flawless symbiosis. 
Younger Brujah, including the more educated among 
the modern nights’ neonates, sometimes refer to the 
city as though they had been there, conjuring an ideal 
Cainite city-state free from the restrictions imposed 
by the Masquerade. Almost all Brujah, whether or not 
they have any grounds to do so, blame the Ventrue for 
the destruction of this idyllic city.
Although little concrete evidence exists, most 
accounts of Carthage portray it as a pit of turpitude, 
at least at the time of its sacking by the Romans dur-
ing the Third Punic War (146 B.C.). The prominent 
religion, as in many Phoenician states, was Baalism, 
which local Cainites twisted to their own ends. By 
the time of its fall, the city hosted nightly bloodbaths; 
sacrifices of children, virgins and slaves; demonic 
rites; orgies and all manner of luxurious indulgence. 
Certainly, the city had its glories — in her journals, 
the ancient Kindred Altamira described Carthage 
as a city in “perfect harmony with the Canaille, free 
from the restrictions of any prince. Some [Kindred] 
had discovered how to control the Beast, and others 
had been pulled back from the very depths of frenzy. 
Together, mortals and immortals [created] a won-
drous, eternal city of peace, progress and equality.” 
The reality of the matter was not so bright, however, 
due to the decadent rituals described above, the 
Phoenician conflict with Rome, the powerlust of 
Cainites and the short, brutal nature of life during 
the time.
Karthadasht attracted many Kindred, though it 
was most thoroughly influenced by Brujah, with a 
significant body of Phoenician Assamites cultivat-
ing a distant second share. The mighty warrior, 
orator and reputed childe of Troile, Meneleus made 
his haven there, as did the barbarian philosopher 
Altamira. And the city suffered no dearth of mor-
tal visionaries, such as the mighty Hannibal, the 
scourge of Rome.
For centuries, Carthage enjoyed its debased 
prominence, with Brujah and Assamites walking as 
veritable gods among the mortals of the city. The 
Brujah Critias established a Socratic school there; 
Xenophon the historian received his Embrace there; 
Dida raised her own cult among the impoverished 
and al-Ashrad visited in the nights before becoming 
Kindred himself.
The enmity of Greece and later Rome conspired 
against Carthage in the long run, however. Allied 
with the declining Etruscans, cut off from the Persian 
Phoenicians, Carthage began its decline. Government 
changed from a focused dictatorship to the rulership 
of squabbling oligarchs — the sufet magistrates, nobles 
and warmasters. As the Punic Wars came to a head, 
Carthage’s coffers had been so plundered by greedy 
nobles and selfish Kindred that the city couldn’t af-
ford to pay its armies. Instead, the rulers threw parties 
and orgies for the soldiers to distract them from the 
fact that they couldn’t be paid for their services. The 
Brujah had so decentralized the sufets and nobles with 
their own power plays that they had no hope of win-
ning the Punic Wars, despite Hannibal’s ingenious 
tactics and those of the cunning Cainite Dominic 
(see below). Meneleus left Carthage to seek aid from 
the Nosferatu and Gangrel of the southern continent 
when the city’s great betrayal came, some say at the 
hands of a beautiful Toreador who was Meneleus’s 
nemesis. The Roman forces swept in, influenced by 
a queasy coalition of Ventrue, Malkavians and a few 
Toreador, and destroyed the city.
Carthaginian Kindred fled as the city burned, and 
the Romans salted the earth to prevent any who had 
taken shelter in the soil from rising. After the sack 
of the city, Carthage never again hosted the “idyllic” 
conditions the Brujah ascribed to it. It came under 
Roman rule after the Third Punic War and remained 
part of the empire, weathering an invasion of Vandals 
in the 5th century A.D. and finally, destruction at 
the hands of Arabs in 698 A.D.
The razing of Carthage profoundly affected the 
Brujah, to whom it had been a sort of home city, free 
from the ubiquitous influence of the Ventrue and 
Toreador elsewhere. Since that time, many Brujah 
have entertained, however unrealistically, the dream 
of rebuilding Carthage or creating it anew at a dif-
ferent location. To date, all of these attempts have 
failed, and the Brujah still harbor a festering grudge.…


Clanbook: Brujah
18
Forgotten Idylls
Certain documents, letters and passages sug-
gest that despite the horrors of Carthage, not all 
Brujah were idolaters and blood-soaked fiends. 
Many modern Brujah scholars cannot help but 
smile at this — the clan’s ignorant neonates 
assume that the city was a Kindred utopia, the 
more erudite maintain that it was a crucible of 
blood, and those few who look even deeper than 
the casual researchers have turned up a bit of 
evidence that the ignorant neonates might have 
been right, after all.
Although most concrete evidence suggests 
that Carthage did indeed degenerate into a pit 
of arrogant, sacrificial debasement, at least one 
group of Brujah desired more than blood-tithes. 
Known as the Promethians, these progressive 
Brujah desired a return to the more idyllic in-
carnation of Carthage, in which Kindred and 
mortals existed side by side symbiotically. Kindred 
scholars in the modern nights are of two minds on 
the matter — some suggest that the Promethians 
were merely apologists who acknowledged the fall 
of Carthage after the fact, while others ascribe 
an active political agenda to the group during 
the time of Carthage’s thriving. Most Cainite 
historians agree, however, that the Promethians 
were active during the Dark Ages and probably 
for some time before that.
As is often the case, some theorists imply an 
even more sinister relationship. The Promethians 
— mostly Brujah by theory, no doubt with a few 
Assamite Carthaginians as well — may well have 
some sort of link to a cult of Roman Ventrue, 
Toreador and Malkavians, who are speculated 
to have become what is known as the Inconnu. 
The state of Golconda has been attributed more 
than once to each of these groups (or perhaps 
sub-factions within them…), and both have 
the common ground of their collapsed empires. 
Certainly, stranger allegiances have been forged 
over the course of Kindred history.
The Dark Ages
As the Roman Empire disintegrated, the world of 
the Cainites followed the lead of the mortal world, 
degenerating into centuries of barbarism. As govern-
ments became purely local affairs and the economies 
of Europe shifted to backbreaking agrarianism, few 
people had time for such luxuries as education. The 
portion of the population that wielded such knowl-
edge usually used it toward a different end — the 
Church. Christianity had become the universal 
religion of Western Europe and even thrived under 
different dogma in Eastern Europe. The population 
of the Western world turned to the Church to pro-
vide them with the rewards of the afterlife; heaven 
promised far more than the mortal coil, but only for 
the just and faithful.
Canny Kindred saw uses for the specialized skills 
of the clergy as well. Indeed, if not for the insight of 
the Church and a few Kindred who skulked within its 
houses of God, the modern world might have turned 
out a very different place.
The Irish Monastic Endeavor
During the 5th through the 10th centuries, the 
Church existed for two ends. It served its true pur-
pose, to deliver the  Word of God to his children. But 
the Church had also become an entity of immense 
political power, able to deny any individual access 
to the Kingdom of Heaven. It owned lands, which 
was primarily the purview of the noble class, and 
collected tithes, which the nobles levied and called 
taxes. As such, the Church had access to many of 
the benefits of nobility, as well as exemption from 
taxation. It had a few other assets as well; the most 
important was literacy.
Most clerical records of the period relate specifically 
to the Church — land deeds, interpretations of religious 
texts, and the philosophies of theologians.
In other cases, the Church — being the only 
institution with such a large body of literate scholars — 
collected books, whether or not they served a religious 
purpose. After all, when the lord of the manor cares only 
for the taxes that pay his debts, and the peasant who 
works the land tills the fields by day and eats a meager 
meal by night, rare is the person who has a need for 
books. Before the invention of the printing press, each 
book had to be crafted by hand — recording informa-
tion took many hours, which, to the average person, 
were better dedicated to growing enough food to keep 
from starving. 
Two notable Irish Brujah knew the perils of los-
ing this valuable information. As old and traveled 
Kindred, they knew other civilizations had ideas to 
offer. Likewise, the ideas that arose from those times 
deserved to be recorded for posterity. To this end, 
Clara of Cork and Fergal the Pious of Clan collected 
the written word, making copies of valuable books and 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
19
saving them in libraries for the edification of society. 
Clara, recognizing that those living contemplative lives 
could devote a few hours to this noble end, put certain 
residents of her abbey to work cataloguing, writing and 
copying books. Fergal, in the meantime, traveled all 
over Western and  Eastern Europe, northern Africa, 
and the Near East in pursuit of written treasures.
As the rest of the world busied itself with wars of 
territory and the daily ordeal of survival, these two 
Kindred convinced other Irish abbots to undertake 
the same preservative efforts in their own monasteries. 
As a result, the Church’s libraries were repositories 
of knowledge that would have otherwise been lost 
to the world. Without the written legacy of human-
ity, it’s quite possible that the Dark Ages may have 
lasted forever. 
The High  
Middle Ages
Many Kindred refer to the beginning of this period 
as “the Long Night,” an age just prior to the formation 
of the sects but subsequent to the brutality that fol-
lowed the collapse of the Roman Empire. Having fled 
the oppressive Ventrue presence in Rome, many Brujah 
relocated to the farthest provinces of the empire, to 
places like Pannonia, Dacia, and the lands surround-
ing the Carpathian Mountains — the area known as 
Transylvania.
The mention of Transylvania, Hungary and the 
Danube usually conjures images of the Tzimisce, the 
skulking Nosferatu and the most feral of Gangrel. In 
truth, the Hungarian Brujah were quite prolific, perhaps 
equaling the populations of their fellow clans. But 
because they were not the indigenous Kindred of the 
“land beyond the forest,” the local clans forced them 
into relative obscurity. While most accounts of Tran-
sylvania feature marauding bands of Tzimisce or nests 
of Nosferatu, the Brujah played as important a role, if 
a less legendary one, as the local Fiends.
The Clash of Cultures
The Brujah’s abandonment of the Malkavian- 
and Ventrue-dominated inner Roman provinces 
took place early in the Christian Era. Migrations 
of Brujah may have taken place as early as the first 
century A.D., and Rabble certainly accompanied the 
armies of Trajan into the region shortly thereafter. It’s 
also probable that Brujah rode with Attila the Hun, 


Clanbook: Brujah
20
or at least followed in his wake. In fact, during the 
first few centuries A.D., Eastern European and Near 
Eastern Brujah traveled with the Gangrel across the 
land, pillaging with the barbarian hordes. Over the 
preceding the High Middle Ages, the Brujah found 
themselves in a curious position as they slowly settled 
into the valleys and forests around the Carpathians 
and Danube.
The original mortal population of Romanians 
(Roman-Dacians) suffered a slow displacement as 
the Magyars, who would become “Hungarians” when 
the kingdom earned its independence, settled the 
land. The Romanians, known as Vlachs, watched 
the Magyars usurp their power under conquests led 
by mortals and Kindred alike. Thus, the indigenous 
Vlachs had become a sort of underclass — the natives 
of the land occupied the bottom rung of the social 
ladder. Dominic, the Brujah warlord, accompanied 
the usurping Magyars and established a place for 
himself among the burgeoning aristocracy. Along 
with a handful of Szeklers — Roman Catholics set-
tling in the area — the Brujah and Roman Ventrue 
subjugated the original stock from which the Tzimisce 
lords and Gangrel prowlers had drawn their childer. 
Buffered by Saxons to the West and threatened by 
the vestiges of the Goths and other barbaric tribes 
to the east, Hungary suffered an identity crisis and 
terrible social upheaval.
The Tzimisce aristocrats and their mortal fellows 
struggled for dominance under the Brujah influx. 
The social balance shifted radically, with the original 
dwellers of the region occupying the highest and lowest 
tiers, and the conquerors, immigrants and diplomats 
assuming the levels above the serfdom and also the 
lesser aristocracies. The lesser aristocracy, of course, 
wanted to displace the existing rulers and assume 
power themselves. The native rulers resisted fiercely, 
clashing with anyone it perceived as a threat. The 
Romanian boyar nobles, among whom the Tzimisce 
invested their influence, slowly but surely gave way 
to the dominance of Ventrue-backed Magyars and 
Szeklers.
Clan Brujah, trapped between the imperialist 
Ventrue and the hoary Tzimisce, rankled under the 
this powerful press. It was their influence that initially 
weakened the long-standing Tzimisce power in the 
area, which many Brujah sought for themselves. The 
Ventrue jackals, however, saw that Hungary seemed 
ripe for the taking and rode the Brujah’s coattails, 
basing their own bids for power on the efforts of the 
Rabble who had gone before them. The Brujah raged 
as they raged after the sack of Carthage, but even the 
Rabble knew that something had to give.
What the Brujah didn’t know was how far the 
inevitable confrontation would go. Aside from its 
severity, the Brujah situation in Transylvania was 
nothing new — as long as the Kindred have existed 
they have warred with each other and allowed their 
own vendettas to bleed out into the world around 
them. This time, though, it was different. This was 
no mere antipathy for a rival group of Cainites, but a 
fullscale hatred. The Transylvanian Brujah despised 
the encroaching Ventrue and the truculent Tzimisce. 
Rabble like Dominic still bore the scars from the col-
lapse of Carthage while younger Brujah saw their own 
litany of failures at the hands of their enemies. The 
time for politics had passed — the frustrated Brujah 
saw their sole option as open revolt.
The initial stirrings of the rebellion surfaced as 
early as the 10th century. The patriarch Dominic, 
riding with the military forces that invaded Eastern 
Hungary, had his brood feed vampiric vitae to their 
soldiers. By making them ghouls, Dominic and his 
fellows not only created a more powerful army but 
also ensured the troops’ loyalty, or at least depen-
dency. Dominic set his sights on an alliance with 
the powerful ruler, Bulscu, a lynchpin in his strategy 
to hamstring Ventrue influence. Bulscu had his own 
plans, however, and saw dealing with Ventrue as more 
beneficial than committing himself to the spiteful 
and anarchic Brujah. Before long, Bulscu received 
the Ventrue Embrace, once again thwarting Brujah 
plans to cripple them.
Dominic was livid. After the Transylvanian 
campaign, he turned his back on the larger Jyhad, 
focusing instead on his personal hatreds. His war was 
no grand experiment to stave off the ennui of his 
elder years, but a murderous elimination of his foes. 
As Dominic reasoned, if he couldn’t win the game, 
he’d change the rules.
Other Brujah flocked to Dominic’s banner, 
for not only was he charismatic, experienced and 
potent, his personal crusade embodied the Brujah 
passion. Other Brujah found themselves inspired 
by him, as his rage against his many rivals ignited 
the emotions within them. Dominic had no illu-
sions as to the nature of this war: He didn’t want 
to lead a clan crusade, he wanted Final Death for 
his foes. The rebellion became a guerrilla war, with 
the Rabble using tactics almost unheard of at the 
time. Packs of Brujah rampaged across Transylva-
nia, striking against Magyar Ventrue, Romanian 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
21
Tzimisce, isolated Nosferatu domains and even 
mortal institutions. Their fury unchecked, the 
Brujah terrorized Eastern Hungary and beyond. 
They were as brutal as any Tzimisce, but far less 
exacting, leaving sacked villages and exsanguinated 
corpses in their wake.
For two centuries, the Brujah plagued the area 
before the tone of the rebellion shifted. Having 
already earned the reputation as anti-monarchists 
and political maniacs, the anarchistic Brujah became 
the first “anarchs.” By the turn of the 13th century, 
other Kindred who heard of them or observed them 
extrapolated the Brujah cause to their own ideals. 
More and more, Kindred attacked the institutions 
that had upheld the society of the undead for mil-
lennia. Young Cainites especially were seduced by 
the growing revolt, left as they were to the mortal 
influences that the avaricious elders hadn’t already 
hoarded for themselves. The Brujah revolution had 
taken on an unlife of its own, creating copycat fac-
tions and splinter groups wherever Kindred spoke of 
the matter. Young Cainites marauded through the 
night in groups known as Furores, anarchs, covens 
and collections of “anti-clans” who had forsaken 
their heritage and pursued unlife as they saw fit.
Themselves enamored of the Brujah resistance 
against their greedy elders, rogue Tzimisce, Ventrue 
and Nosferatu in Hungary joined the cause. While 
they harbored little love for the out-of-control 
Brujah who had made a horror show of Transylvania 
for as long as they could remember, the dissatisfied 
Cainites of Hungary saw their elders distracted by 
the anarch menace and used the opportunity to 
make a place for themselves. As the 14th century 
approached, the Brujah had raged for so long that 
most Kindred had come to accept that Transylvania 
might well be a battleground for the undead forever. 
Ever more Tzimisce revolted against their 
sires, and significant numbers of other Kindred 
proclaimed themselves antitribu in open defiance 
of the established conventions of Cainite society. 
Packs of young vampires toppled their sires, while 
cagey elders annihilated entire broods of neonates 
and ancillae indiscriminately. Hungarian cities like 
Bistritz, Klausenburg and Mediasch became Kindred 
crucibles, where anarchs terrorized the streets and 
princes conceived desperate counterstrikes from their 
castles and manors. The rebellion spread to the west 
— all over Europe, childer battled their sires. Paris, 
London, Milan, Budapest, Cologne and Prague were 
all hotbeds of strife.
Laurels of History
As has been noted before, the Brujah have 
very little resembling a “clan history.” Still, to 
use that as a basis to dismiss the contributions 
of certain Rabble throughout history is foolish 
— despite the lack of unity among Clan Brujah, 
its members often influence the outcomes of key 
events around the world.
Ibn-El-Sayyid
An unnamed Brujah is believed to have 
helped pen Poem of the Cid after fighting in the 
struggle to drive the Moors out of Valencia in 
1094. The Brujah are particularly fond of this 
possibly mythical Kindred just as the Lasombra 
feel a great tie to Rodrigo de Vivar — and a Bru-
jah connection to him undermines the Keepers’ 
arrogant claims to greatness.
The Real Robin Hood
During the late 14th century, Robin Leeland 
participated in many of the peasant uprisings 
in England, including Wat Tyler’s rebellion 
and several revolts against Edward III and 
Henry IV. Leeland is seen by many as one of 
the first anarchs, and sired a prestigious brood 
of Rabble, including Patricia of Bollingbroke 
(see Chapter Three).
The Sun Never Sets…
At the beginning of India’s Sepoy Rebellion 
of 1857, the Brujah Bankim Hapsa was among 
the Muslim Indians who killed British officers 
after being imprisoned for refusing to bite open 
rifle cartridges that had been lubricated with pork 
fat. He followed the rebellion until it was finally 
suppressed in 1859 and aided in the capture of 
Lucknow and Delhi.
The American Revolutionary
 and Civil Wars
Marguerite Foccart and the Embraced slave 
Crispus Attucks led several rebellions against the 
British, including being present at the Boston 
Massacre. They also organized guerrilla strikes 
during the nights before the war itself that 
resulted in the weakening of British garrisons. 
Likewise, just 100 years after the American seces-
sion from England, Foccart and Attucks conspired 
against expansionist Southern Ventrue during 
the Civil War, stealing war funds, intercepting 
missives and feeding from Confederate soldiers 
to weaken them before battles.


Clanbook: Brujah
22
The war of the ages had become known as the 
Anarch Revolt by this point, the original Transylvanian 
Brujah rebellion having been subsumed by the larger 
tide of undead conflict. While the significance of the 
Brujah involvement in the affair has been largely forgot-
ten in the modern nights, many elders still remember. 
These venerable Kindred are the greatest critics of 
the Brujah, if not the most vocal — they know how 
instrumental the raving Brujah were in the eventual 
formation of the Sabbat. Although they know it’s 
ridiculous to blame them entirely, these elders know 
that history repeats itself, and that without the Brujah 
serving as a diversion for the antitribu, the Black Hand 
might never have come to be.
Strange Bedfellows
While the annals of the Brujah’s collective past 
often read like chronicles of revolution and chaos, 
not every member of the Rabble aligns herself with 
the agents of change. As are Kindred of any clan, 
Brujah are first and foremost vampires — selfish 
creatures who exist as parasites on the vitae of the 
mortal world. To the Kindred, clan is nothing but 
an arbitrary designation, a concept as largely mean-
ingless as nationality, ethnicity or even the street 
upon which they make their havens. These Brujah 
gladly bought into existing power structures of their 
environments, or opposed the rest of their Brujah 
comrades. From august elder seneschals to conserva-
tive neonates, Rabble have supported the status quo 
with as much vigor as they have opposed it. The pas-
sion for change that burns in every Brujah’s undead 
veins, for some Rabble, is a passion to prevent the 
changes other would wreak on their staid, comfort-
able unlives. After all, the Kindred are no strangers 
to sleeping with the enemy.
Etheyra
By various accounts the third childe of Troile, 
a whore of Carthage who stole the Embrace or 
one of the greatest traitors to the Brujah legacy, 
Etheyra was a North African Brujah who watched 
the impending approach of the Punic Wars with a 
critical eye. Knowing that though Carthage may 
win a few of the battles but they would never win 
the war, Etheyra fled the city, taking solace in 
hated Rome and offering the secrets of Carthage 
to the undead aligned against it. Etheyra became 
a protégé of the great Ventrue Democritus. Some 
elder Brujah suspect that as Carthage burned, she 
suggested that the Romans salt the ground, to pre-
vent any Cainites who had taken cover beneath 
the soil from rising.
Iancu the Bloody
Fleeing persecution in Ventrue-dominated Rome, 
“Bloody John” traveled eastward, finally settling in 
Lithuania, where he fell into torpor for several cen-
turies. Acting in accord with his reputation, Iancu 
rose from his cold sleep to find a party of Vikings 
disembarking from their ship to raid a fishing village 
and gorged himself on the vitae of every last one of 
them. The local Lithuanians briefly mistook him for 
a legendary figure made real, until Iancu swore al-
legiance to the local Tzimisce Lord Tzevolod. The 
Fiend finally had to destroy his vicious sergeant after 
Iancu proved to be incapable of not decimating the 
serf population of whichever community he had been 
sent to tax or account for. Iancu hated the Lithuanian 
Brujah passionately, blaming them for failing to come 
to the aid of their clanmates centuries before, despite 
the fact that few of them had been Embraced at that 
point, and took their fangs as trophies whenever they 
ran afoul of him.
Catherine Minot
Catherine had married into the Saxon nobility 
of England as a mortal, and it was among the post-
Roman Anglicization of the land that she became on 
of the Kindred. Her own mortal husband had met his 
end at the hands of the pagan Danes, and instead of 
marrying to retain her title and station, Catherine 
defended them  herself. For two centuries, she fought 
back the Danes, until in 1066, she was faced with a 
new threat: the Normans. For a brief period, she played 
one off the other, citing the Danelaw or the laws of 
William the Conqueror as she saw fit, struggling to 
retain her own autonomy. Finally, in 1078, she was 
declared a heretic, her lands ceded to the Church and 
awarded to one of the Norman invaders. Disgraced, 
Catherine joined the vestiges of the Danes and was 
diablerized by her childe, who had allied with the 
Norman gentrification.
Ybalb
Beneath the Sahara desert, where the winds blow 
hot by day and chillingly cold by night, few Kindred 
have ever gone and returned to tell the tale. Ybalb, 
however, is one of them, though she would be loath 
to share her stories with the race of Caine. Of either 
Dan or Yoruba stock, Ybalb’s sire told her that he was 
a great traveler from the City of Gods, far to the north, 
where men walked among their lords and pleased them 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
23
upon command. Seduced by his promise of wealth and 
pleasure, Ybalb allowed him to Embrace her. What she 
found upon following him, though, disgusted her — 
the wickedness and treachery of the Kindred made her 
ashamed of what she had become. Staking her sire, she 
fled back to the lands of her home — where she had 
become a demon, a hungry spirit. Outcast, she met a 
few others, followers of Kagn, who were like her but 
not the same as her. To the best of anyone’s knowledge, 
she prowls the lands Afric to this night, counting 
among her allies the ghosts and laibon unknown to 
other Kindred.
Malchus Feith
In the early part of the 18th century, before the 
King of England and the Prince of Wales plunged 
the country into a state of civil war, Malchus Feith 
served as the Midnight Advisor to George II, whom 
the Hanover-allied Ventrue considered “theirs.” An 
entente of French Brujah, Malkavians and Toreador 
attempted a minor coup of English lands, under the 
guise of a pretended named Rudolph, who claimed to 
hail from the royal family of the “sovereign state of 
Ruritania.” The English court, smelling scandal, blazed 
with gossip. Duels were fought, lovers met their deaths 
in passion and nobles plotted and schemed how best 
to  ally themselves with the nascent House of Ras-
sendyll, to which Prince Rudolph belonged, without 
earning the ire of King George. Surely, more blood 
would have been spilled and more treacheries enacted 
but for Chamberlain Feith, who defused the whole 
situation by making the court aware, through ghouls, 
mortal servants and public notices that, indeed, there 
was no such thing as the House of Rassendyll, and no 
nation known as Ruritania.
Salvador Garcia
One of the most influential anarchs of the fallen 
Anarch Free State, Garcia soured on the “glorious 
struggle” after decades of resistance against the Califor-
nian princes. As one of Jeremy MacNeil’s compatriots, 
Garcia struck against Prince Sebastian, plotted against 
the malicious Lupines of Death Valley and finally 
settled in East Los Angeles as part of the Revolutionary 
Council. As he grew older, however, Garcia began to 
perceive the anarchs as less of a force fighting for a true 
“free state” and more a simple-minded group of vicious 
thugs. No longer feeling that he owed the cause any 
allegiance, Garcia turned not the Camarilla, but to the 
larger threat looming on the horizon: the Cathayans. 
With Salvador Garcia’s help, the Kindred of the East 
crippled a powerful gang of anarchs, the Crypt’s sons 
and moved into positions of influence traditionally 
held by Western vampires in the Anarch Free State. 
To this night, Garcia remains firmly in the camp of 
the Cathayan’s “New Promise Mandarinate,” seeing 
the Kuei-jin’s order as a better one than the “gangland 
feudalism” that the Anarch Free State seemed only 
to engender.
The Contemporary 
Rabble
The end of the 19th century through the turn 
of the 21st bore witness to  tremendous change, 
especially for Clan Brujah. As the Jyhad rages, the 
Rabble press on, waging their own nightly wars against 
the backdrop of the most accelerated technological 
advancement in the history of civilization.
Most Kindred find such omnipresent change 
unconscionable. As creatures cursed with an im-
mortality that traps them in time, the undead prefer 
stasis to change because it is more difficult for their 
dead minds to accept new environments. This is 
even true of elder Brujah, who may have long since 
witnessed the ascension of their “ideal” society, only 
to watch it collapse beneath the inexorable tide of 
“progress.” To most Brujah, however, the events of 
the last hundred years have been a culmination of 
their efforts. Even in areas untouched by the slight-
est Brujah influence, adjustment has been the rule of 
the era. Even as the world disintegrates nightly with 
the approach of Gehenna, the Brujah hope that they 
can somehow affect the fate of the world. Poverty 
soars while unemployment shrinks, as the “working 
poor” displace the out of work. The mortal lifespan 
extends, perhaps too long, as overpopulation devours 
the world’s resources. Old political institutions come 
under greater scrutiny during the Information Age, 
though the reforms that result are often the most 
popular, not necessarily the best. In light of such 
unchecked change, many Brujah become disillusioned 
and are forced to consider whether change is always 
for the best.
Across Europe
Part of the problem facing the Brujah’s identity 
and history throughout the  High Middle Ages and 
into the future was that the Rabble no longer had  a 
true “home”. Insomuch as Carthage was “the city of 
the Brujah,” the clan had nothing like that to fol-


Clanbook: Brujah
24
low them forward in time. While certain regions of 
Europe had distinct groups of vampires that character-
ized the area, no place had been set aside as a center 
for Brujah society.
England and its islands had long been the home 
of the Gangrel, but recent centuries — notably after 
the fall of Rome — had seen an influx of Ventrue 
eager to claim their own domains. Likewise, France 
had been a seat of Toreador influence since Char-
lemagne had turned his attentions eastward and 
inward. Norway, Scandinavia and Sweden were 
havens for lone Gangrel and Nosferatu, and the odd 
Ventrue, Lasombra and even Setite who had moved 
onward from their traditional domains. Even Spain, 
from which many later Brujah elders would hail, was 
largely under the sway of the Lasombra. Italy proved 
too cosmopolitan, though many Brujah did establish 
havens there — it was a port of call for exotic Kindred 
and a financial, religious and governmental center 
for domestic Cainites.
Taking all this into account, however, one must 
consider that by and large, few Brujah wanted a center 
of power. Many preferred to brood over the loss of 
Carthage rather than go about creating a new one, 
while most simply occupied themselves by wandering, 
moving with migrating ethnic or religious groups, or 
shutting themselves away to pursue monastic or aca-
demic unlives.
Brujah princes rose and fell during the High 
Middle Ages, and many Zealots (as members of the 
clan were then known) made places for themselves 
amid the retinues of other princes. Some of the clan’s 
greatest thinkers, such as Ecaterina the Wise, Gilles 
the Frank, the reformist Don Udolfo Cerro and the 
marrano Balthasar of Seville acted as seneschals or 
ministers to powerful princes. Many others, most 
notably Patricia Bollingbroke, earned reputations 
as raucous rebels, contributing greatly to the sense 
of iconoclasm that characterizes the modern clan. 
Without exception, though, the Brujah made their 
fates as individuals — one is unlikely to hear about 
sweeping movements of the Spanish Brujah’s opposi-
tion to the Swiss Brujah concerning Habsburg Austria 
following the Peace of Augsburg because it simply 
didn’t happen. At best, several elders who already had 
their own causes for quarrel cloaked their latest devel-
opments under cover of political tensions, religious 
persecution or cultural climes. Vampires may be great 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
25
and his pack followed Jolliet and Marquette’s expe-
ditions and proceeded further north into Canada. 
In Mexico city, many traveling Brujah fell under 
the sway of the Sabbat Toreador who called her-
self Galbraith and joined the sect, while others 
converted to the Sword of Caine’s cause on pain 
of Final Death. Fortified by the presence of Brujah 
and Gangrel Cainites, the Sabbat tightened its grip 
around Mexico, even as the colonies (and later states) 
to the north slipped through its bloody talon. The 
Sabbat in Mexico loomed almost as ubiquitously 
as the Camarilla did in Europe and to the north — 
vampires populated the ranks of the local Catholic 
Church and claimed to be dons of their own estates. 
Away from the steeples and mud-brick walls of the 
cities, bestial Sabbat stalked the black plains, some 
even capable of defending their primitive domains 
against the frenzied Lupines.
Brujah also gathered in New York, Providence, 
and later Atlanta and across Florida. Drawn by the 
readily available supplies of vitae or the throngs of 
mortal life in the cities, the Brujah generally left 
the press westward to mortals and then members 
of other clans. The cities on the seaboard had all 
they wanted — why risk unknowingly upsetting a 
feral Gangrel or worse, a den of Lupines? Inevitably, 
though, some Brujah moved westward either out of 
wanderlust or due to the rarity of valuable domains 
to the east, which had already been claimed by the 
first waves of Kindred to hit the shores.
Canada held little appeal for most Brujah — it 
was too rural, and the parts that weren’t were either 
inhospitable due to the ravening Sabbat present or 
oppressive exile domains claimed by French and 
English Toreador, Tremere and Ventrue who found 
the political tides of the Old World turned against 
them. This isn’t true universally — Montreal had 
no shortage of Brujah both Sabbat and otherwise 
during its first nights, while Vancouver has at least 
one resident Brujah and her brood. For the most 
part, however, New World Brujah quickly became 
content to defend their more easily established 
domains, forcing much of the Kindred’s movements 
through Canada and the western expanse of the 
United States to be undertaken by other clans. They 
repelled Sabbat incursions, backed princes’ claims 
to power, warred with each other and other clans, 
and generally behaved exactly as had their sires and 
elders throughout history, despite the vast difference 
in their ages. Perhaps this reflects on Kindred nature 
at large, without regard to clan.…
manipulators, but part of prowess at manipulation is 
not being known for it — individual Brujah generally 
had the sense to avoid making themselves obvious 
movers and shakers in the realms of mortal politics.
The New World
As is no surprise, many Kindred jumped at the 
opportunity to make a place for themselves in the 
New World as the Age of Exploration opened new 
vistas to Cainites and kine alike. Brujah flocked to 
ships second only in number to the sleek Lasombra 
pirate corvettes, becoming scourges of the seas. 
Others, generally ancillae and neonates looking to 
make their own fortunes where cagey elders hadn’t 
already monopolized the local resources, set out to 
claim domains in the New World. Some followed the 
anarchs and autarkis West; some took the fledgling 
Camarilla’s cause to the far shores and still others 
carried the Sabbat’s Great Jyhad across the Atlan-
tic. Within a century, the New World was rife with 
Brujah, outnumbering members of other clans by as 
many as two to one in some estimations.
Unlike in the Old World, Brujah in the early 
Americas centralized. This took place not so much 
out of camaraderie as it did out of Embrace prac-
tices — faced with significant resources as far as 
sustenance were concerned and no strong princes 
to prevent them, many Brujah set foot on solid 
ground and immediately Embraced new broods. 
Rabble who followed Cortez to the great cities of the 
Aztecs set themselves up among the death-witches 
and goldsmiths. Some settled with the Incas and 
feasted on the hearty blood of the quinoa farmers. 
Still others moved further south… and were never 
heard from again, which causes many to speculate 
either that something destroyed them or they took 
the opportunity to remove themselves from the 
petty politics of Kindred society altogether. A few 
followed the Portuguese into what would become 
Brazil, but even these foresires of the modern South 
American Kindred know nothing of what became of 
the Brujah who traveled in Pizarro’s wake.
To the north, the Brujah found Mexico to be 
infested by Sabbat and anarchs. Those who had no 
sympathy for these sects fled either to the South 
American jungles or the East Coast of what would 
one night become the United States and Canada. 
The Sabbat Brujah grew strong and complacent 
in Mexico. Led by Medardo Cancarone, several 
nomadic Brujah Sabbat packs expanded the sect’s 
influence into Baja Mexico while Ronald Malkmus 


Clanbook: Brujah
26
The Frontier
Of course, not every New World Brujah was a 
paranoid homebody or a spiteful curmudgeon. Many 
ancillae who were present remember the American 
frontier fondly, if a bit nostalgically. Frontier law 
suited the tastes of many Brujah — for the most 
anarchic, the law was practically nonexistent, and 
reformationist Brujah often found themselves able to 
influence the casual justice of the “Wild West” with 
their own pet philosophies.
The middle to late 1800s represented a wild, 
violent time, and not only in American history. 
Needless to say, this suited the passions and tastes of 
many Rabble. In France, the aftermath of the French 
Revolution gave rise to the Emperor Napoleon, who 
conquered as much of Europe as was humanly possible 
at the time, much to the pleasure of his Brujah and 
Ventrue supporters. Some simple Brujah reveled in 
the violence of Napoleon’s conquest, while it gave 
others a cause against which to raise a hue and cry. 
Intellectual Brujah had the opportunity to watch the 
theories of the progressive philosophes tested — which 
resulted in the rise of enlightened despotism in both 
Eastern and Western Europe, and the penultimate 
radical stance of communism shortly thereafter.
Things were certainly no calmer for Kindred in 
the American West. Border conflicts in Texas, New 
Mexico and California between Sabbat, Camarilla 
and anarch vampires erupted almost nightly, with 
little being gained in terms of permanent advantage 
either way. Brujah vampires rode with the cattleherd-
ers and outlaw gangs alike — posthumous journals 
and newspaper reports have attributed known 
Kindred to outfits like the Scott Cooley gang, the 
Clanton clan and practically every member of the 
Harrison Miner gang. Obviously, none of the Kin-
dred outlaws were present for events like the O.K. 
Corral affair, but nonetheless, a band of armed noc-
turnal marauders with unholy powers turned many 
a wagon train or border town into a nightmare for 
the victims.
North America
While the North American continent doesn’t 
have the greatest concentration of Brujah Kindred (a 
distinction more likely belonging to Western Europe 
or northern Africa), it likely has the greatest popula-
tion of the Rabble. From the childer of Kindred who 
came to the New World during the Age of Exploration 
and still make their havens in Mexico and Central 
America to the vast broods populating the Anarch 
Free State, Clan Brujah has perhaps more than its fair 
share of Kindred.
The Anarch Free State
Forced westward at the turn of the 20th century 
by the dual pressures of the Sabbat on the East Coast 
and Camarilla Ventrue and Toreador consolidating 
their influence over heartland cities, the Brujah finally 
found themselves with nowhere else to go, having 
arrived at the West Coast of the United States. Even 
there, the influence of other clans kept the Brujah 
politically impotent. Teeming with uprooted Rabble 
by the first decade of the 20th century, the cities of 
Sacramento, Seattle, Los Angeles and San Diego were 
ripe for rebellion.
Princes of these cities, outnumbered but still main-
taining their influence, had to be careful to avoid a 
second Anarch Revolt. In the end, their appeasement 
tactics failed — despite offering consideration to the 
inordinate throngs of Brujah, violence flared. Inspired 
by the dissident Jeremy MacNeil, a small group of 
Brujah staged an open rebellion against the Prince of 
Los Angeles, the Toreador Don Sebastian, in 1944. 
The event that touched off the revolt was indicative 
of the larger problem the Brujah faced: Overconfident 
of his own power, Sebastian ordered his flunkies to 
beat MacNeil as a lesson to the unruly Rabble. Instead 
of being cowed into submission, the Brujah became 
enraged. Seeing that his exercise in terror politics had 
failed, Sebastian relented, promising an investigation 
and his own trial under a council of elders.
These promises placated the Brujah, who thought 
the evidence was so solid against Sebastian that the 
council would have no choice but to censure him. 
One of the elders on the council was a Brujah himself, 
which the anarchs believed gave them a sympathizer 
on the council. Such wasn’t the case, however — the 
elders thrived under Sebastian’s princedom, and either 
had no desire to see a howling pack of rowdy childer 
in charge or sincerely underestimated the threat 
posed by the anarchs. They made a statement to the 
local Kindred that they had found Sebastian and his 
entourage free from any wrongdoing. They even at-
tempted to saddle MacNeil with trumped-up charges 
of conspiracy against the prince.
The anarchs went ballistic. Rebels rioted in 
the streets of Los Angeles. Intellectuals derided 
Sebastian and the elders, claiming that they had 
turned the Kindred social contract into a plutocratic 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
27
What the elders perceived to be a small but vocal 
faction of neonates turned out to be a vast mob of 
Kindred. Over three years, the Camarilla presence 
in California had been scuttled by the Brujah and 
their anarch allies. Rebellion spread up the coast as 
well, inciting further anarch coups in Oregon and 
Washington. When everything settled down, the 
anarchs emerged triumphant.
Jeremy MacNeil, having been thrust into the role 
of leadership, did what he could with the surprisingly 
successful overthrow. Assembling a representative 
collective of anarch councilors, the revolutionaries 
adapted the Camarilla’s traditions to suit their needs. 
Transcending mortal political boundaries, the strip 
of land affected by the revolts proclaimed itself the 
Anarch Free State. They made it plain that while 
they didn’t oppose the tenets to which the Camarilla 
subscribed, they weren’t about to stand for elder 
domination out of obeisance. In the free state, so 
went the philosophy, any Kindred was free to make 
his own fortune, regardless of age, with simple respect 
for the other Kindred present.
The reality turned out to be less utopian than 
the theory, however. By the late 1950s, the free state 
government of the undead. The anarchs and Brujah 
rallied, instantly elevating MacNeil to the status of 
a martyr and chanting his name as they rampaged 
through the city. The revolt grew nightly, and even 
the reluctant MacNeil found himself dragged into 
active participation. Within a week, the Brujah and 
their anarch allies had overthrown the princedom, 
binding Sebastian in iron chains and burning down 
his haven with him and his cronies still inside. The 
elders either joined the anarch cause or fled under-
ground. Over the course of two short months since 
MacNeil’s beating, the anarchs had completely un-
dermined Camarilla influence in Los Angeles with 
the most dire of methods.
The anarchs had more where that came from. 
The Los Angeles revolt was only the beginning. 
Sebastian’s overthrow ignited an explosion that 
engulfed all of the West Coast. Spurred to action by 
the events taking place in LA, anarchs, Brujah and 
other revolutionaries visited similar fates upon the 
princes and elders from San Diego to San Jose. Elders 
were reduced to ash and dumped unceremoniously 
into the sea. Princes met grisly or dramatic ends as 
testaments to the fury of the disenfranchised childer. 


Clanbook: Brujah
28
had become a balkanized collective of anarch gang 
territories and petty Camarilla-esque “baronies.” 
As the 1980s approached, violence racked the free 
state as competing gangs and broods warred for influ-
ence. With the lack of organization and direction, 
the social order weakened — what had once been 
struggles between elders and younger Kindred for 
finite resources became struggles between rival gangs 
of young Kindred for the same assets. In addition, 
no few elders had crept in to fill the power vacuum 
left in the wake of the initial revolts. In cities like 
Los Angeles and San Diego, older, more capable 
Cainites once again hoarded influence, leaving the 
less profitable concerns and less desirable real estate 
to the younger Kindred, who squabbled like dogs over 
scraps dropped from the master’s table.
MacNeil and his assembled councilors recognized 
what was happening — the names had changed but 
the situation remained the same. The council itself 
had no power; it never pretended to be an institution, 
but rather a forum for the ideals of the Anarch Free 
State. Although communication between councilors 
remained open, all of them harbored their own agen-
das. While the free state had succeeded in making 
the local Kindred society more egalitarian, it failed 
to eliminate the schemes and powermongering that 
are second nature to the race of Caine. While any 
Kindred, regardless of clan or age, was welcome to 
make his haven in the free state and build a place 
for himself, the old order had once again taken root.
Still, the Anarch Free State made many young 
Kindred far more comfortable than they would have 
ever been in any Camarilla domain. Vampire gangs 
such as the Crypt’s Sons rose to prominence while 
Kindred who had been ousted in bids for power else-
where made new starts. Neonates largely did what 
they pleased without the formality demanded by the 
more iron-handed of princes. The period between the 
60s and the early 90s seemed to be an era of Kindred 
prosperity, punctuated by a few well-meaning but 
doomed attempts to push the borders of the free state 
eastward. There, they met resistance by Ventrue and 
Giovanni in Las Vegas and by the fractious but united 
princes of the Camarilla in other cities who had 
no intention of letting their own domains become 
common property. Nevertheless, vampires pretty 
much had the run of the Anarch Free State, limited 
only by common sense and the self-preservation 
instinct (and, in some cases, the self-preservation 
instinct of other Kindred who weren’t about to let 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
29
a few foolish or maniacal vampires jeopardize their 
own unlives). The rift between the anarchs and 
the Camarilla had even started the slow process of 
healing once the anarchs saw no reconquest effort 
mounting against them and the Camarilla elders 
realized that the anarch threat seemed to contain 
and police itself, for the most part.
It seemed as if the Anarch Free State had es-
tablished itself for nothing more catastrophic than 
a slow decline, if indeed, it didn’t stabilize into a 
virtual Camarilla. That, then, was the reason that 
the abrupt shattering of the free state took so many 
Kindred by surprise, anarchs and outside onlookers 
alike.
In late 1998, the anarch baron of San Diego, the 
Brujah Tara, made a bid for recognition that forever 
altered the Anarch Free State. With the assistance 
of a Camarilla archon, Tara declared herself Prince 
of San Diego, returning the city to the nominal 
influence of the Camarilla — certainly more so 
than any other free-state city with the exception 
of San Francisco. This act shocked the complacent 
anarchs, who had taken their dominance in Cali-
fornia for granted for so long that they didn’t see 
Tara’s “defection” coming. 
The new Prince of San Diego argues that the 
shifting allegiance changes nothing about the aver-
age Kindred’s nightly affairs. The Camarilla doesn’t 
demand anything of its Kindred or princes, but 
provides a network of contacts and a loose affilia-
tion upon which the city can rely. Trapped between 
Sabbat dominance in Tijuana to the south and the 
ceaseless influx of Cathayans from Asia, Tara defends 
herself as having had no choice — albeit from a very 
comfortable haven.
Fractious Brujah and anarchs loyal to the cause 
have become increasingly agitated with the situa-
tion, not because it changes anything for them but 
because it sets an uncomfortable precedent. If the 
free state depends on the Camarilla for defense 
or unity, it’s not really a free state at all. Jeremy 
MacNeil, in particular, regarded Tara’s decision as 
a great betrayal.
Following San Diego’s dramatized defection by 
less than one year, the exposure of many prominent 
free state Kindred’s dealings with the bellicose 
Cathayans has further compromised the anarch 
territory. Despite strong Brujah presence and the 
(admittedly erratic) support of the anarchs them-
selves, the Anarch Free State has proved to be less 


Clanbook: Brujah
30
resistant to outside influence than it thought. Several 
factions of Eastern Kindred have scouted California 
territories for over a decade and have managed to 
convince influential Kindred that their free state 
exists perilously between the Camarilla and their 
own sphere of dominance. These savvy Cathayans 
convinced local Kindred to strike a deal with them 
— in exchange for the opportunity to expand their 
own holdings, the Cathayans left free-state politics 
untouched. Local Cainites accepted this deal more 
often than not, reasoning that to side with the Ca-
marilla would revert them to the state from which 
they revolted only a few decades ago. These Kindred 
have bartered their own power, smuggled cells of 
Cathayans into their cities and provided invaluable 
insight into local power structures.
Events culminated in early 2000, when the Ca-
thayans invaded the Camarilla city of San Francisco. 
The city’s new prince lacked the political clout to 
stop the slow aggregation of Eastern Kindred power, 
which enabled the enigmatic vampires to topple 
Camarilla’s influence in the city. Even the presence 
of Toreador Justicar Madame Guil and her capable 
archons, including at least one Brujah, wasn’t enough 
to turn back the tide.
The tension reached an explosive head at a 
botched negotiation between the archons and a 
faction of the Cathayans on Telegraph Hill. Anarchs 
aware of the delicate situation attempted to foil 
the deal through an armed guerilla strike, while 
the Sabbat, oblivious to the anarch resistance, sent 
an agent to ruin the meeting in hopes of provok-
ing open warfare between the Camarilla and their 
erstwhile Cathayan compatriots. The spectacular 
four-way confrontation resulted in a Masquerade-
demolishing vampiric sect war that raged through 
the city, causing millions of dollars worth of prop-
erty damage. Guns blazing, the anarchs fought to 
repel the treacherous Camarilla Kindred and the 
nefarious Cathayans. The Sabbat contribution 
largely failed shortly after it became evident that 
the sect had an interest in the matter, largely due 
to the negligence of their agent, Sandhurst. The 
Camarilla fought back feebly, as the elders who made 
the entire thing possible turned and ran to protect 
themselves while the Cathayans made a doormat 
of the powerless prince. The anarch hero MacNeil 
and his childe Crispus Attucks met Final Death 
in the conflict, though some whisper that they 
have merely been captured, making them valuable 
informants who could enlighten the Cathayans as 
to other matters in the free state. Although a few 
Cainites still make their havens in San Francisco, 
the political power rests doubtlessly in the hands 
of the Eastern Kindred.
The Anarch Free State seems to be crumbling 
under its own weight. Unable to withstand outside 
pressures without compromising the freedom for which 
it fought, the free state is hardly the New Carthage 
some Brujah claim it to be, especially in the mod-
ern nights. The experiment fractures nightly under 
subtle but ceaseless assault from all sides. Tijuana is a 
stronghold for the Sabbat. San Francisco has become 
inhospitable to the anarch cause. San Diego demurely 
turned its back on the Brujah-anarch revolution. How 
much longer can the free state remain?
Russia
While the Brujah don’t usually involve them-
selves in most occult Kindred affairs, they had little 
choice during the recent events in Russia. The fruits 
of centuries of Brujah labor came into question as one 
of the most ancient evils of the land rose to claim 
the region as its own.
The Brujah Council and  
the Shadow Curtain
Until the beginning of the 20th century, Rus-
sian princes generally hailed from the Ventrue and 
Toreador clans, with a few Nosferatu and Tzimisce 
lords claiming domains but rarely the formal title of 
prince. These formidable Cainites held power in the 
land of the czars, even after much of the Western 
world had moved from empowered monarchies into 
more democratic forms of government. The Brujah 
of Russia and Eastern Europe clashed with these 
established powers, whether on the battlefield, in 
the cold halls of Elysium or through mortal prox-
ies. Only rarely did the Brujah come out on top 
— the Ventrue and Toreador played the game too 
well, while the Tzimisce and Nosferatu had been 
veritable extensions of the land itself for so long 
that the Brujah could rarely gain the upper hand 
against them. When the Russian Revolution took 
place, however, the Brujah finally bested their foes.
Revenge drove the Russian Rabble — many har-
bored grudges against the czarist princes for slights in 
nights past or for crushing the political progress locally 
that the rest of the world seemed ready to accept. 
Brujah like the esteemed Inconnu Cœfee struggled 
against the aristocracy while modernists like Antonin 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
31
Zilkha and Leonid Borisovich championed the ideals 
of Marx and Engels.
It is no surprise, then, that many Brujah accu-
mulated influence among the nascent Bolsheviks 
and Mensheviks and found themselves propelled 
to prominence following the overthrow of Czar 
Nicholas in 1917. Although not all Brujah openly 
supported Soviet Communism, most were simply 
satisfied to attach themselves to the winning side 
or throw in with the group proposing the most 
radical change. So it was then, that an appre-
ciable number of Russian Brujah seized the reins 
of Kindred power during the early decades of the 
20th century.
Seeing the need to insulate themselves against 
the schemes of the ousted Kindred who had until 
recently held power, the communist Brujah decided 
to form a coalition. Brujah all across Russia became 
part of this council, from the lowliest neonate Bol-
shevik to the most august elder who secured a place 
for himself in Lenin’s cabinet.
The loose coalition hadn’t been in place long 
before the Brujah egos and tempers that comprised 
it flared. To the outside observer, the council was 
a monument of Kindred cooperation. To those 
inside it, however, every night promised a new 
struggle among the members. Genuine Kindred 
communists struggled with those who had joined 
the revolution for their own interests. Zilkha and 
Borisovich’s atheists matched wits with the less 
radical socialists. Additionally, the leader of the 
revolution and new government, Vladimir Lenin, 
proved remarkably resistant to Kindred influence. 
Whether he was aware of the undead nature of the 
powerful council or simply too politically agile to 
fall under the sway of the Brujah, Lenin eluded 
them. This divided the council even further, as 
frustrations over Lenin’s persistent autonomy kept 
the Kindred from using the communists to their 
full satisfaction.
Lenin’s tenacious freedom from the spheres of 
Kindred influence proved his undoing, however. 
The philosophers and idealists among the Brujah 
Council resented the stance he took on intellectu-
alism — many mortal Russian critics, thinkers and 
scholars were sent to labor camps, as Lenin reasoned 
that they might upset his plans of the state. More 
radical elements among the Brujah backed Lenin 
but the elders and conservative ancilla believed 
that the revolution had gone too far. After Lenin’s 


Clanbook: Brujah
32
death in 1924, Brujah meddling ensured the ascen-
sion of Leon Trotsky as Lenin’s successor.
After this, however, mortals proved once again 
to make their own fates — the dictatorial Joseph 
Stalin wasted no time seizing the reins of power in 
communist Russia, usurping Trotsky’s power and 
sending him into exile.
Seeing an opportunity to displace the Brujah 
monopoly on power in Russia, enterprising Ventrue, 
Toreador and Nosferatu attached themselves to the 
Stalinist regime. A true maniac, Stalin used his po-
sition to set up gulags and fed the labor camps with 
“dissidents,” intellectuals, Jews, Gypsies, and sundry 
“enemies of the state” who threatened his U.S.S.R. 
As the Brujah dominance of the communist gov-
ernment eroded, other Kindred crept in to fill the 
power vacuum. Although they remained out of sight 
of mortal politics, the influx of non-Brujah Kindred 
made the Russian society of the undead as chaotic 
as Stalin’s secret police made the lives of the mortal 
populace. Kindred infested the military and civil 
authorities — petty princes set up domains as small 
as individual neighborhoods. Zilkha was staked and 
met the sunrise, while Borisovich disappeared into 
the Siberian tundra.
Stalin’s reign proved as schismatic to the crum-
bling Brujah Council as Lenin’s had before him. 
Stalin kept the camps and gulags full, which made 
feeding ridiculously easy for Kindred, but many wanted 
to see his end as the turnover rate of the lower-level 
bureaucrats in the communist machine made culti-
vating influence difficult and unreliable. A coterie 
of young members of the Brujah Council turned up 
information that linked several of the internment 
camps to the Sabbat — Stalin was obliviously feed-
ing the Black Hand, thereby worsening the situation 
for the Russian Brujah. As this information surfaced, 
the council united toward a single course of action: 
Stalin had to be removed and replaced with a leader 
more receptive to Brujah needs.
And then they immediately reversed their posi-
tion. Hitler invaded Poland, and the council realized 
the need for a leader like Stalin to galvanize his people 
in resistance to the Nazis. Although the Kindred could 
control no actual political events in the mortal world, 
they agreed that, for the time being, they would not 
try to influence events in favor of Stalin’s removal. 
To the relief of the Brujah Council, Stalin signed an 
agreement with Hitler that specified Germany would 
not invade Russia. To their chagrin — and the obvi-
ous resentment of all Russians — Hitler ignored the 
deal and crossed the Russian border in 1941.
World War II played out largely free from Kindred 
influence, especially along the Russian front, as the 
Kindred went into hiding, bloated themselves on 
concentration-camp vitae or watched their influence 
vanish overnight. As the war came to a close, the 
fragmented bureaus of the communist government 
remained dissolute. Kindred with political ambi-
tions sought greener pastures — the Russian political 
landscape was impossible to navigate. Kindred who 
managed to acquire power did so by specializing their 
interests and forming sub-factions of the weakened 
council.
This state of confusion and decentralization kept 
the council weak for more than half a century. The 
only solace the Brujah could take was in the fact 
that despite the crippling of the council, the Rabble 
still commanded the most influence in the U.S.S.R. 
As the 90s approached, the Russian people wanted 
reform. Mikhail Gorbachev, the Soviet President, 
adopted policies of perestroika (restructuring) and 
glasnost (openness). Once again, this flummoxed 
Kindred interests in the nation. All of the contacts 
they had made and power they had garnered among 
the communists waned under the changes Gorbachev 
mandated to protect the government. Still, when the 
Brujah put aside their rivalries to consolidate, they 
commanded more influence in the nation than any 
other Kindred, but more and more Brujah left the 
council, uncomfortable with the radical changes that 
continued to plague the U.S.S.R. for almost an entire 
century. The remaining Brujah Council members were 
fine with this — it meant that they could harvest 
even more influence. Such was not to be, however.
An ancient Kindred arose from torpor and took 
the opportunity to make her own play in the Jyhad. 
The weakened council had no manpower, and as it 
distracted itself with rebuilding its foundation, Baba 
Yaga destroyed its members in their own havens, 
one by one. In eight short nights, every member of 
the Brujah Council had been exterminated, some 
as many as four centuries old, and most were said to 
have been eaten instead of simply killed or diablerized. 
Rumors spoke of one survivor, though her whereabouts 
are unknown.
Although this chapter of Russian history had 
several more developments — the destruction of the 


Chapter One: Millennia of Conflict
33
fabled Baba Yaga (no doubt by some ungodly enemy), 
the disbanding of the U.S.S.R., the rise and retire-
ment of Gorbachev’s successor Boris Yeltsin — the 
Brujah contribution to the situation has largely ended. 
A few Brujah still exist in Russia, piecing together 
domains or sparring with petty princes, but the time 
of unified Brujah cooperation against the efforts of 
other clans has ended. Indeed, the Brujah Council 
in Russia was the last of the cohesive Brujah efforts 
the world has known to date.
And, as the Final Nights wear on, it may prove 
to be the last the world ever sees.


Clanbook: Brujah
34


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
35
Chapter Two:  
Unlife Among  
the Brujah
We live in the age of incivility and rancor.
— Kenneth Starr
One might suspect that a clan like the Brujah 
has few traditions, that its members are too diverse 
to share any common ground. To some extent this 
is true — the Brujah are rebels above all else; what 
strikes one as a universal truth may seem like blas-
phemy to another. Certainly, the clan is one of the 
most disorganized and informal families of Caine’s 
childer, but that doesn’t automatically alienate them 
from one another.
Brujah often gather in broods of like-minded in-
dividuals. In many cities, the majority of local Brujah 
descend from the same sire. A noted primogen may sire 
every Brujah in the city and defend this as her right; a 
powerful elder may be the grandsire of multiple nests 
of Brujah in a given domain. Or, quite the opposite, a 
city may have a cosmopolitan Rabble from a variety of 
sires and locations. 
Despite the Curse of Caine, Brujah tend to be social 
creatures, which explains their congregations. Young 
Kindred often find safety in numbers, while elders cling 
to their dwindling humanity by surrounding themselves 
with progeny. Even the dissolute anarchs have a common 
cause against which they rally, though methods may 
differ among various gangs, cults, fronts and leagues.
One common characteristic shared by the Brujah 
is their close tie to the mortal world. While other Kin-
dred interact with mortals through institutions (like 
the Ventrue or the Toreador), the Brujah deal most 
often with individual mortals. A single Brujah may 
very well have contacts on the police force, comrades 
in the drug underworld, secret agents in the press and 
compatriots who are members of urban gangs. Some 
Kindred joke that while a Toreador might be able to 
get you on the guest list, only a Brujah can get you 
through the door.
Indeed, the Kindred may have none among them 
closer to the mortal world than the Brujah. While the 
Ventrue busy themselves with banks and investment 
firms, and the Toreador disdain the common elements 
of humanity, the Brujah place themselves right in the 
middle (of course, they do so almost universally for 
the purpose of rebelling against the establishment). 
One needs to look no further than the closet in a 
Brujah’s haven to know the impact mortals have on 


Clanbook: Brujah
36
their unlives — Rabble follow cutting-edge trends 
and remain just ahead of the curve. After all, once 
everyone’s wearing a certain style of clothing or 
listening to a specific kind of music, it’s no longer 
trend setting but trend following; few Brujah want to 
be part of that sort of thing. Still, some Brujah break 
this mold, settling into countercultures that forever 
remain on the periphery of the cultural radar. Some 
Brujah place themselves among skinheads, goths, 
bikers, and hackers whom society will never openly 
welcome, despite the fact that their true period of 
novelty has long passed. In many cases, this indicates 
the static nature of undeath — upon receiving the 
Embrace, vampires become “locked in time,” forever 
preserved with the image, culture and ideals they 
held at that time. This stasis perpetuates the inherent 
fractiousness of the clan — elders Embraced millennia 
ago, who still support the concepts considered rebel-
lious at that time, are bound to clash with younger 
Kindred, whose concept of, say, democracy differs 
radically from the classical Athenian’s.
In practice, however, none of this means a thing. 
No assessment of the clan as an entity can prepare 
someone to understand the Brujah. They are a clan of 
individuals, bound only by the traditions they choose 
to accept.
From the 
Notebooks of 
Horace Kaplan
For my own justification, I have taken the liberty 
of organizing my observations of my fellow Brujah. 
Perhaps some night this record shall be of use.
I am Horace Wyndham Kaplan, of the New 
York (actually, New Amsterdam) Kaplans, born in 
1837 and Embraced by Marcus “Freeman” Teague 
in 1871. I understand that I am ten steps removed 
from Caine. Upon this project’s undertaking, I have 
been described as an ancilla by both my sire and 
peers. Over the course of my life, I spent a few years 
as a chronicler and historian, both occupations from 
which I found myself often relieved, as I frequently 
indulged in editorializing unbecoming of objective 
recording. Thereafter I plied a few years’ trade as a 
cardsharp on the frontier train lines before meeting 
my sire and joining the esteemed Brujah. Since then, 
I have acquired some small repute among my fellows, 
running with various packs and coteries, assimilating 
the knowledge of the streets and halls of power with 
equal aplomb. Some know me as “Gringo.” Others 
call me “Bird.” The Death Valley Sabbat and the 
free-state anarchs call me “Arethusa.” A select few 
know me by my birth name, including my sire and 
my lover-cum-childe, Vanessa Hedrin, may God have 
mercy on her soul.
If my biography inclines you to take what I say with 
a grain of salt, so be it. You’re a better person for it.
Idealism and 
Iconoclasm
I’ve heard these terms tossed around frequently 
— it seems that every clan has its own little inter-
nal subdivisions and conflicting ideologies, and 
some pedant feels like he has to step in and Codify 
All Concepts for the Edification of Knowledge. 
Somewhere down the line, someone convinced a 
few verbose Brujah that a formal distinction was 
necessary. Well, as far as I can tell this had one 
of two effects on your average Brujah: fuck all or 
whole-cloth acceptance.
The Brujah who accept the incontrovertible 
classification of the clan tend to be either con-
servative intellectuals or liberal firebrands. These 
intellectuals like to play with and debate such neat 
categories — put a sociologist Brujah in a room with 
a Brujah eugenicist and watch them beat the topic 
into the ground sometime. Or don’t put them in a 
room and read Dr. Ophelia Gaines’s A Conversa-
tion With Carlyle, which is practically a transcript 
of that sort of thing. The liberals who support the 
formal distinction do it to perpetuate their “class 
struggle” arguments. At one Rant, they scream about 
the anachronism of princes and the fundamental 
egalitarianism of the Kindred race while in another 
they wax polemic about the schism that prevents 
the Brujah from uniting against the common enemy. 
(Who this enemy is varies by Brujah. It’s the same 
failing to account for individuality that underpins 
all liberalism.)
On the other side of the coin, you have Kindred 
like me, who think that dividing the clan into arbitrary 
teams is bullshit. I’m in the camp with the progressive 
intellectuals who know that unifying social theory is 
a crock, and with the more reactionary rabble-rousers, 
who gladly accept anyone who supports the latest 
cause they’ve adopted. Rounding out the group that 
doesn’t believe in rigid striation are Brujah who just 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
37
don’t care about politics and simply want to kick 
a little ass. Then again, if you tell them that their 
“enemy” is philosophically different from them, 
they’ll climb over their own dead mothers to take 
a shot at the guy.
Here’s the truth, are you 
ready? — we’re all exactly as 
individual or as assimilated as 
we each want to be. That’s 
one of the things I hate 
about this century — pop-
culture drivel pretending 
to be legitimate social 
science. It seems that the 
modern kine need validation 
for their feelings of superiority 
or rationale for their self-hatred. 
Young Kindred follow this trend 
all too blindly. Me, I’d prefer a good old-
fashioned argument about noble savagery 
any night of the week, but regrettably, 
Rousseau is not among the Damned.
Listen to me! How typical of a 
Brujah… I’ve let my feelings on the 
matter divert me from the issue at 
hand. Too caught up in my own 
rhetoric, don’t you know. No 
wonder we’re so fractious. Back 
to the pigeonholes: In a nutshell, 
the iconoclasts are your bomb-
hurling anarchist types while 
the idealists are the brooding 
subversives.
Iconoclasts
In the modern nights, most Brujah 
probably fall into the iconoclast arche-
type, or at least they have over the past 
few decades. Social upheaval has long been 
a feature of the human condition — what 
is history but a collection of problems and 
people’s resolutions of them? All Kindred 
were human at some point. To simplify 
the concept, iconoclasts are the most 
rebellious Brujah, quick to rally to any 
cause that espouses change. Many join 
anarch factions, hoping to bring Kindred 
social conventions up to date. They tend 
to be young, vigorous, and shortsighted 
— agitated iconoclasts happily incite riots, 
heedless of the fact that their own havens 
might be destroyed.


Clanbook: Brujah
38
The sociologist in me finds the concept of icono-
clasm endlessly fascinating. Are these idol smashers 
the same unwavering members of the Camarilla, 
upholders of the Path of Humanity, those in touch 
with the voices of the streets? Now, when I say that 
they’re staunch supporters of the Camarilla, I don’t 
mean that they’re out there with campaign buttons, 
waving “Camarilla!” pennants at some sect football 
game. No, I mean that on some level, they realize that 
they need the Camarilla. It is the institution against 
which they rage; it is the order into which they try 
to impose their own brand of change. Without the 
Camarilla, what would the iconoclasts rebel against?
Like I said, fascinating, in a self-destructive sort 
of way. A colleague of mine, the venerable Critias 
(who is more of a mentor than an associate) main-
tains that of all Kindred, the Brujah are the most 
in touch with their conscience. The ranks of the 
Brujah include some of the most violent, angry and 
rebellious Kindred in the world. Among them we 
find drug lords, gangsters, corrupt officials, hardened 
streetwalkers and depraved prophets of tumult. On 
the other side of the coin, the clan includes priests, 
teachers, writers, artists, poets, performers and 
teachers. What‘s the common thread? What could 
possibly serve to unite the most liberal of political 
activists with a vicious skinhead?
The answer is humanity. I mean that in the 
abstract — the concept of humanitas, the bulwark 
against the Beast. Every Brujah knows that to lose 
to the Beast is to fall into a degenerate state from 
which no Kindred returns. We know this all too 
well, given our progenitor’s proclivity for frenzy, a 
proclivity that each of us bears to this night. Deep 
inside every Brujah’s heart, he believes he is right — 
unassailably so. The skinhead truly believes in his 
dogma of purity. The activist fully upholds a code 
of equality and compassion. 
This is why the iconoclasts rage so fiercely. As 
their ranks are populated predominantly by young 
Cainites, their ideologies often lack the maturity 
of those held by elders. They make up for this with 
the strength of their conviction. I don’t say this 
to disparage them; the young Kindred are capable 
of mustering an enthusiasm that evades the clan’s 
elders. They simply haven’t had the decades or 
centuries to explore the issues that truly matter 
to them. That’s another one of the not-so-gentle 
ironies that afflict the Brujah. The young ones are 
the most capable of still caring. The ancillae and 
elders most often settle under the ennui of the 
years; it takes more to rouse them to the heights 
of passion. And on that note…
Idealists
Ostensibly, the idealists are the more analytical 
or intellectual Brujah, those who study the past for 
guidance and rationally consider their best course 
of action. That sounds like loaded wording to me, 
and I suspect that, based on how superior it sounds, 
a self-avowed “idealist” first codified the distinction.
The idealist camp seems comprised mainly of 
elders and ancillae — those who have had the time 
to grow past the rambunctious hell-on-wheels stage 
most neonates go through. These aren’t anarchs (or 
if they are, they’re more involved with the ideology 
than with the firsthand assault on the bastions of 
undead society). No, they’re the seasoned Kindred, 
those with some stake in their cities’ political struc-
tures, sophisticates, and presumably anyone in the 
clan who prefers to discuss an idea rather than throw 
a trash can through someone’s window. Not that 
idealists are above violence, but they don’t neces-
sarily want to get their hands dirty. You can often 
find an idealist by asking an anarch or iconoclast 
who the city’s biggest sellouts are.
Some idealists have even been around so long 
they can remember our fabled Carthage. My afore-
mentioned mentor Critias claims to have once made 
his haven there and alludes to his sire having done 
the same. The exemplars of the idealist model refer 
to Carthage as proof that Brujah can unite toward 
obtainable goals. Naturally, self-styled iconoclasts 
refuse this sort of “manipulation by the elders,” 
seeing it as yet another example of old vampires 
trying to usurp the rights of the young. And so the 
Jyhad continues.
Idealism is as much a behavior-based distinction 
as iconoclasm. Brujah primogen, for example, often 
embody the idealistic spirit. They want to know all 
the facts and analyze a situation before deciding 
how best to change it. Yes, change — the desire to 
build and improve still lies close to their unbeat-
ing hearts, despite the different methods they use 
to achieve it. I hope I haven’t implied that they’re 
emotionless and empty; your elder Brujah is just as 
capable of a blood-rage resulting from a perceived 
slight as a hotheaded neonate, except that he can 
cause a lot more damage in the process. The real 
difference: the idealist knows that he’s doing what’s 
right, while an iconoclast feels it.


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
39
The whole matter is largely subjective — I should 
undoubtedly present an example. Jeremy MacNeil, 
a popular anarch leader from the Anarch Free State 
of California (which I still recognize in spite of 
the problems it has faced recently), is a dyed-in-
the-wool revolutionary, having witnessed several 
Scottish independence skirmishes, the American 
and French Revolutions as well as the American 
Civil War. Look for trouble and you’ll find MacNeil. 
He’s potent enough to wade into the midst of battle 
and emerge with a score of severed heads. MacNeil, 
however, takes a rational approach. He knows that 
the best way to cripple an enemy is to target its 
leader. To this end, he has argued the anarchs’ case 
not only in the streets of the free state but also in 
Elysium. He knows that a mindless street war with 
California’s invading Cathayan menace only serves 
to cripple a few of the soldiers, so he instead pursues 
diplomacy, negotiating with the Cathayan leaders 
and working out accords that let both sides exist in 
mutual comfort. 
By way of counterexample, I suggest you look 
no further than Smiling Jack, a.k.a. Calico Jack 
Rackham, a.k.a. Jack Hopper, a.k.a. (in at least one 
episode) Malk Content. An anarch of the “let’s blow 
things up” stripe, Jack’s indulges his malice for its 
own sake. Smiling Jack doesn’t care who he’s feuding 
with, as long as it’s someone — he’s fought on both 
sides of the rivalry between Prince Tara of San Diego 
and the self-styled “Prince” of El Cajon, Shay. He’s 
sabotaged gangs of other anarchs. He’s burned down 
Sabbat havens and Camarilla soirees alike, all in the 
interests of causing grief to “the powers that be.” The 
end result? Anarchs and Brujah respect MacNeil, but 
they like Smiling Jack. Almost everyone else hates 
them both, but not because they’re iconoclasts or 
idealists or even Brujah, but because they wanted 
to change the way things work.
Individualists
In my decades of discussion with other Brujah, I 
have at times encountered a third distinction of the 
Brujah temperament. A few members of the clan 
have referred to the “individualists” who seem to ex-
ist somewhere between the poles of iconoclasm and 
idealism. Again, this smacks of artifice — by what 
grand and cosmic scale are we to weigh our principles? 
— but some Kindred find security in appellations.
Near as I can tell, the individualist espouses 
change and works for the good of the many (“the 
many” having different definitions to different indi-
vidualists) but requires no adherence to her plans. 
She’s not a demanding elder, insisting that her fellows 
follow her agenda, but neither is she an anarchistic 
dervish. She simply chooses her course, and anyone 
else is welcome to come along, should they so wish.
To be fair, this seems to be a simple personality 
trait rather than a political stance. The term seems 
to refer to the denotative nonconformist — the mo-
ment you care about whether someone follows you, 
you become an idealist. Like I said, it seems to be 
convenient to label people, but I know of no one 
who claims to be an individualist. Perhaps they are 
ahead of their time. Or maybe I’m right and it’s all 
so much nonsense.
Rants and Raves
Brujah gatherings either suggest or utterly defy the 
stereotype other Kindred have of us. Assuming some 
outside Kindred hears that we have assemblies, her 
response generally betrays shock (“I didn’t know you 
Brujah organized to do anything.”) or dismissal (“Do 
they hand out the biker jackets at the door?”).
In my experience, I’ve found the former to be 
mostly true — any time the Brujah gather, the whole 
thing is bound to have some air of incredulity. It’s 
because we’re so generally disorganized and leave 
each other to our own devices. Brujah meetings, 
often called rants, tend to have loose agendas, but 
when things come to order they can be quite formal, 
depending upon whom attends. Parties thrown by 
Brujah, also known as raves, most frequently follow 
a rant or precede one. Brujah seem to have the best 
luck staging their raves after the rants — if you throw 
a party before your organized convocation, it’s quite 
possible that things may never calm down enough 
for everyone to get down to business.
In both cases, matters are generally pretty open-
ended. I’ve seen Kindred who I know belong to different 
clans at both rants and raves, and no one seemed to 
care. It’s not like we’re some juggernaut that plans to 
secretly mobilize against the world. No, rants tend to 
reflect more local interests while raves, in my hon-
est opinion, need a little out-of-clan presence to be 
interesting. If nothing else, you can gather a few of 
your bullyboys and kick the shit out of some snotty 
Toreador who thinks she’s slumming.
Between the two different gatherings, some com-
mon principles apply. It seems that anyone can call 
a rant or throw a rave; the only difficulty is making 
sure that people attend. Isn’t that the case with any 
meeting or party? And whoever organizes the thing 


Clanbook: Brujah
40
had better make sure all 
his ducks have lined up 
in a row. After all, if the 
rant attracts some big-
shot elder from Milan or 
Barcelona, he’s going to be 
one angry Lick if the po-
lice bumrush the meeting 
four minutes into his pet 
tirade. Smart Kindred also 
provide for their guests’ 
tastes at rants and raves 
— hungry Brujah don’t 
pay attention very well, 
and most aren’t averse to 
a little sloppy feeding as 
long as it takes place in 
someone else’s backyard.
Rants
Rants tend to be held 
either by elder Brujah or 
young ones trying to make 
names for themselves. 
That’s simply their most 
common incarnation, 
though — of late, anarchs 
and other Brujah rowdies 
have learned that the 
rant is a perfectly viable 
venue for expression and 
not just a symposium of 
sellouts. You may have 
even seen the aftermath 
of one; check your local 
newspapers for any dem-
onstrations that resulted 
in riots. While you’re at 
it, marvel at the reporter’s 
ability to not mention cars 
overturned by solitary 
protesters or to dismiss one 
rioter’s dispatching of 
four police officers as 
“a drug frenzy.” The 
Masquerade is a 
beautiful thing.
I’ve attend-
ed probably a 
hundred or so of 
the things, but I 
travel a good 
deal. Your average city may 
not even have one each 
year — it depends com-
pletely on the disposition 
of the local Brujah. A few 
members of the clan have 
distinguished themselves 
by hosting annual rants or 
gala debates every decade or 
so, but these are the excep-
tion rather than the rule. I 
know that Justicar Pascek 
had a premier rant that took 
place on the winter solstice 
every year in Prague, but 
that was attended mostly by 
Eastern European Brujah. 
Something similar happens 
in Texas around the time of 
each year’s Burning Man 
festival (I suppose so those 
attending Burning Man can 
drop by the rant before or 
after). And I have no doubt 
that every cell of Brujah 
anarchs in the crumbling 
free state observes their 
own signature event, which 
other anarch gangs attend as 
long as the hosts promise to 
attend theirs.
Ostensibly, rants have 
some issue at their core; 
you don’t throw a rant 
without having something 
to, well, rant about. In 
this sense, “rant” is some-
times a misleading word. 
Conclaves of elders and 
ancillae often manage to 
keep their emotions in 
check long enough to await 
their turn in the spot-
light. In some cases, 
though, you end up 
with those situations 
you sometimes see in 
those Japanese gov-
ernment meetings on 
C-SPAN: a room full 
of tastefully dressed 
officials who sud-


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
41
denly begin brawling and hurling chairs at each 
other. It happens.
Particularly agitated ancillae and neonates prob-
ably gave the rant its appellation, and the name 
reflects these two groups’ typical behavior. They have 
a tendency to get carried away, either with their own 
pet issue or the incendiary presentations of their fel-
lows. Some nihilistic Brujah even attend rants just to 
disrupt them, or perhaps find a thrilling fight in which 
to participate. In cases like these, I wish the clan wasn’t 
so egalitarian — like representative democracy, not 
every Brujah should attend these sorts of things. Not 
everyone has something constructive to say. Some 
Kindred just want to yank others’ chains.
Still, rant hosts typically prefer to keep things 
informal. Most rants are arranged around a stage or 
assembly-hall model in which the audience faces the 
speaker. Anyone is welcome to speak. Of course, the 
proceedings tend to be overshadowed by long-winded 
elders or filibustering firebrands, but as long as you can 
bully your way to the head of the crowd, you can have 
your shot at the podium. I remember one rant held 
in Italy, just after World War II officially concluded, 
at which some Brujah socialist waxed at length about 
the utopian opportunity offered by Mussolini’s death 
and why the locals should use their influence to cul-
tivate atheistic communes around the countryside. 
This went on for more than 45 minutes before some 
ill-tempered anarchists awaiting their turn had heard 
enough and literally bombed the socialist off the stage. 
Their actions met with applause, even though their 
ensuing diatribe didn’t.
The central purpose of the rant can take many 
forms. Most rants involve some vaguely important 
Kindred issue, but we afford them equal gravity when 
they’re ceremonies commemorating memorable events 
or figures, like the Martin Luther King, Jr. affair held 
every February in Alabama. I’ve even been to a few 
that didn’t explicitly state their focus beforehand, 
and the rant opened with whatever issue made it to 
the floor first.
Policy Rants
The loose structure inherent to Clan Brujah makes 
any attempt at a universal statement of doctrine im-
possible. Still, that doesn’t mean local Brujah can’t 
band together to serve a mutual purpose, at least 
temporarily. Policy rants serve to galvanize Brujah 
toward common causes. For example, back in the 19th 
century sometime (I don’t recall exactly, because I 
wasn’t there, but this is one of those Brujah legends 
that “one of my sire’s associates” always observed), 
Prince Mithras of London was apparently trying to 
tip the balance of power in the London primogen 
by maintaining two Ventrue primogen. Two weeks 
before the formal appointment, the London Brujah 
gathered and decided that Mithras’ intent was pretty 
much bullshit. One week later, they made a grandi-
ose proclamation that they would physically beat to 
Final Death any Kindred who claimed the second 
title of Ventrue primogen. Naturally, Mithras could 
have demolished any of the Brujah, but none of the 
Kindred wanted the London Brujah clamoring for 
his blood, so the secondary primogen position went 
unfilled. Score one for the system of checks and bal-
ances, courtesy of Clan Brujah.
Debates
Almost the exclusive purview of elders and 
intellectuals (because the more rambunctious ele-
ments find them terribly boring), debates involve 
the argument of an issue for its own sake. Although 
they may lead to a policy rant afterward, the argu-
ment itself comprises the crux of a debate rant. In 
a debate, the attending Brujah decide which side of 
the rant’s given issue they support. Each side then 
makes its case, examining or cross-examining as the 
participants see fit. Of the debates I’ve seen, I can’t 
tell whether they’re supposed to be moderated or not 
— sometimes a moderator serves to keep the debate 
on topic while at others, the gathered Brujah simply 
take it on good faith that they won’t deviate from 
the issue at hand. Sometimes, they manage to stay on 
target. The debate goes on until one side convinces 
the moderator (or, less frequently, the other side) 
that it is right, which may take nights or even weeks.
Now, because these are elders we’re talking 
about (for the most part, at least), debates rarely 
degenerate into violence. I’ve found it more likely 
for a participant to walk away with a new rival in 
the ever-unfolding Jyhad than a broken collarbone. 
Still, the exception proves the rule, and more than 
one impassioned anarch has found himself shattered 
over an elder’s knee during cross-examination.
For the reader’s reference, I include this bit of 
transcript from a debate I attended in 1992. Note the 
attention to detail the speaker (Rudolph of Melk, a 
liberal French elder) maintains in his argument. I 
can recall this only because I had written it down; 
the assembled vampires at a debate tend not to write 
things down, lest they leave proof of their positions 
— or even their existence.


Clanbook: Brujah
42
“I would like to argue against the 
32nd subissue of the 10th point that 
Critias raised on the third night of 
the current debate by stating that the 
issue is in fact negative, rendering 
the 12th, 15th and 17th subissues ir-
relevant as well.”
That’s right — Rudolph remembered Critias’ 
specific points over a series of nights as well as each 
of the subissues contained therein. Upon cross-
examination, Critias likewise refuted several of 
Rudolph’s minor conjectures with similar attention 
to minutiae. Debates are no mere shouting matches, 
but rather elaborately constructed considerations 
of the issue from every angle. Although we Brujah 
might be excitable, we express our passions in dif-
ferent ways.
Prestige Rants
I must confess that of all the various rants, I enjoy 
prestige rants the most.
Prestige among the Brujah is a curious thing. 
Because the clan espouses change, it lauds those Kin-
dred who make names for themselves by challenging 
established institutions. Now, anyone who thinks 
about this realizes that as elders garner power, they 
become institutions. While the elders of the clan are 
more than happy to recognize status or prestige in an 
ancilla who, say, confounds a Ventrue’s bid for power, 
they’re loath to do it when said ancilla confounds 
their own bid for power. Hypocritical? Certainly. Par 
for the course where elders are involved.
That said, prestige rants not only recognize 
Brujah achievements, they also allow the assembled 
Brujah to have a mean-spirited laugh at the follies 
of their peers. Prestige rants are often affairs that 
require an invitation, and to decline an invitation 
risks even more public mockery than simply attend-
ing and taking your licks. In a few cases, recalcitrant 
elders have been dragged bodily from their havens 
to prestige rants, where, held down by enthusiastic 
younger Kindred, they suffered the scorn and abuse 
of every Brujah from a several-hundred-mile radius. 
Humility, after all, is good for the soul.
I feel myself becoming overexcited at that prospect.
In any event, prestige rants also acquaint Brujah 
vampires with the deeds of their clanmates. This may 
take any form, from an ironic “coming out” party to 
a very formal procession of Kindred, in which the 
host describes the mayhem he’s purveyed. The Brujah 
have to be very careful, however, as these rants tend 
to draw the most outsider presence, whether that of 
other Kindred or even kine. After all, not only must 
the individual’s secrets be preserved, but so must the 
traditions.
Rally Rants
Every now and then, after local members of the 
clan have united for some common goal, a Brujah 
calls a rally rant. These are generally straightforward 
affairs, used to psyche up the Brujah before turn-
ing them loose upon whatever has demanded their 
attention. Rally rants often turn violent, resulting 
in property damage and civil unrest like the rant 
the Atlanta Brujah held in the condemned Omni 
arena before their doomed stand against the Sabbat 
in 1999. Let the host beware — whipping a gang of 
angry Brujah into righteous indignation often takes 
its toll on the immediate environment.
Spite Rants
The Brujah use these rare and brutal venues to 
punish Kindred who have committed some transgres-
sion, whether against “the clan” (which is a fairly 
specious conceit — how do you rebel against rebels?), 
the brood, or in general for crimes that provide the 
local thugs with an excuse to stomp a Brujah they 
don’t like. In a sense, spite rants are exceptionally 
nasty prestige rants, though they serve the sole purpose 
of punishment. In fact, the term is one I’ve made up; 
I’ve never heard a Brujah allude to a spite rant, but 
that seems to be the most appropriate term. I’ve only 
been to two of these — one was a street gang-style 
“gauntlet” beating held by anarchs that resulted in the 
Final Death of the victim; in the other, the criminal 
in question stood trial for supposedly revealing the 
location of a Brujah elder’s haven to an Assamite in 
the Nosferatu primogen’s employ. A mob of neonates, 
seeing the opportunity to fire themselves up about 
something, roped the offender to a doorway and 
cracked his ribs with the broad side of a mattock for 
six hours.
Raves
 In the history of the Brujah, raves developed 
relatively recently. While I certainly remember having 
hosted and attended parties in the latter part of the 
19th century, none of these were on the scale of the 
epic debauches that take place in the modern nights. 
Brujah parties used to be small, private affairs. Maybe a 
city’s Brujah gathered at a coffeehouse, or maybe they 
all gathered outside the city and howled at the guards 
on the wall. One of the best proto-raves I’ve had the 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
43
pleasure of attending reminded me of sneaking out of 
my father’s house as a child. It was right around the 
turn of the century and several of us young ‘uns stole 
a few horses and rode like the Four Horsemen of the 
Apocalypse through the streets of New York City, 
kicking in windows and bashing derelicts. What can 
I say? We were young, foolhardy, and loud, but by the 
time we laughed it off at the end of the night, three 
other Brujah had joined our parade of assholes.
I’ve traced the origins of the word “rave” back 
approximately 10 or 15 years, and it seems to have 
come into usage concurrent with the English all-night 
dance parties of the same description. That’s no sur-
prise; the Kindred have been following and co-opting 
mortal trends since, presumably, the establishment of 
the Masquerade.
To describe Brujah raves as anything less than 
manic parties undertaken with reckless abandon is to 
do them a disservice. Whether gala affairs or raucous, 
secret garage parties, raves are places where Brujah 
can convene, put their ideologies behind them and 
let their hair down. The typical rave offers no end 
of hedonistic excess — dancing, thunderous music, 
drug- and alcohol-addled vessels, kine to flirt with or 
bully, and perhaps a good-natured brawl to round out 
the experience.
Raves, while open to all Kindred, are without a 
doubt Brujah affairs. Athough most, if not all, local 
Brujah attend raves in their vicinity, the entertain-
ment reflects an inclination toward the younger 
Kindred. The music tends to be upbeat and either 
monotonous or savage. Metal, speed and thrash all 
have their places at the raves, but equally com-
mon are the urban, rap and Latin styles prevalent 
in ethnic neighborhoods and inner cities. Most 
popular, however, is the electronic music played 
at the parties from which this Brujah custom was 
adapted. One pair of Brujah promoters operates a 
perennial mobile rave that has thrown parties in Tel 
Aviv, Prague, Oslo, Sydney, New York, Sao Paolo, 
San Francisco, Athens, Budapest, Buenos Aires, 
Ibiza, and even the Cathayan cities of Tokyo and 


Clanbook: Brujah
44
Hong Kong, hiring prominent mortal DJs to whip 
the partygoers into ecstatic states.
At your average rave, mortals throng the 
dance floors, filling the air with the tang of blood 
and sweat. A few young Kindred even refer to the 
floors as buffets, from which they take their choice 
of vessels.
Raves aren’t simply dance parties, however, 
though that is how most non-Brujah guests see 
them. For Brujah Kindred, they are places to meet 
old friends and rivals without having to worry about 
open conflict. Not that raves are somehow sacrosanct 
to the Brujah; we simply understand that not every 
night needs to be another episode in our endless 
litany of personal vendettas. Even the Damned need 
to have a good time every now and then.
That said, raves see their fair share of violence. 
Brawls between Brujah tend to be affectionate or com-
petitive, as with mortal siblings. It’s just a bit of friendly 
roughhousing, or the odd bit of alpha-Lick assertion. 
This typically goes over the heads of other Kindred, 
however, who either assume the worst and flee or, less 
conveniently, join in as if unlives were at stake. This 
usually has the unpleasant result of turning the affair 
into a real fight, after which the Brujah are likely found 
shaking their heads and wondering what the hell the 
other Kindreds’ problem is, anyway. On 
occasion, mortal guests wind 
up involved in the 
fray — the less said 
about that, the 
better.
The distinctly separate topic of non-Brujah 
violence also  deserves some attention. These are 
simply normal cases — booze-stoked rowdies coming 
to blows over perceived slights, gangsters resolv-
ing turf disputes and such, just like at every other 
nightclub or party.
Other Distinctions of the 
Brujah
In certain cases, Brujah blood has deviated from 
its none-too-humble beginnings. These cases are ac-
tual shifts in the makeup of the bloodline, not simple 
social conventions like I’ve discussed above. Some 
of us are hardly “just another Brujah.”
But God help you if you think like that, anyway.
The Antitribu
I make no claims of being a genealogist. My skills 
lie in observation, not research. Still, I think it’s fair 
to assume that the Brujah antitribu arose as did many 
of the other anti-clans, as a result of sire-childe griev-
ances that culminated in the Anarch Revolt and the 
formation of the Sabbat.


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
45
Fine. They became upset, fought with their sires, 
and left. I’m not going to pretend to examine their 
reasons. I’m more concerned with their practices.
As members of the Sabbat, the Brujah antitribu 
don’t typically follow the Traditions (see below) as 
a code. While they may observe a Tradition or two 
in practice, it’s because it suits them for the time be-
ing, not because they have any respect for the code. 
Likewise, cities infested by Sabbat tend to be more 
violent, which allows Brujah antitribu to indulge their 
vampiric viciousness more often. They don’t have 
to hide behind façades of social correctness or anti-
correctness — Brujah antitribu make no bones about 
who they are.
This is precisely what’s so sad about them. The 
Sabbat has effectively eliminated the artificial codes 
to which vampires adhere under the auspices of the 
Camarilla. The much-feared Black Hand is nothing so 
much as a survivalist religious cult; it has torn down 
walls other Kindred built to protect themselves. Where 
the Brujah are concerned, the result is disappointing. 
Given the opportunity to become whatever they want, 
most became simple fiends and thugs. Having turned 
their backs on the clan that spawned them, they also 
deny the history and legacy of a clan that once claimed 
to be the philosopher-warriors of undead society. No, 
the Sabbat Brujah seem to be content with fulfilling 
only half of that destiny, and when you call them on 
it, they pound you to pulp.
Naturally, that’s not always the case, just the most 
common. I’ve spent half of my essay dismissing stereo-
types and the other half reinforcing them — I hope 
to leave the impression that the Brujah are half what 
you see and half what you can’t. This isn’t as true of 
the antitribu, however, who seem to be three-fourths 
what you see and one-fourth sick in the head. Obvi-
ously, individuals exist, but the dogma of the Sabbat 
has undeniably taken a firm hold in the collective 
psyches of its Brujah.
In the time I spent with a coterie of Sabbat Kin-
dred, the two Brujah among them continually took 
me aside to whisper that things were going to change 
in the coming nights. Apparently the Brujah of the 
Sabbat have made names for themselves among the 
traditional leaders of the sect, the Tzimisce and La-
sombra. My two proselytizers regaled me with tales of 
Brujah cunning, crusades masterminded by their kind, 
significant battles and assassinations undertaken by the 
“Brutes” (as they somewhat meanly call themselves) 
and lofty positions of responsibility filled by daring 
antitribu. I believe them, for the most part. To hear 
them tell it, the Brujah of the Sabbat will soon have 
a greater voice, recognized as they are for their value 
by the current leaders of the sect.
Do you see a pattern? Can you find a few, recurrent 
notes that strike you with their clarity? I do.
The single greatest difference between Brujah of 
the Camarilla and the Sabbat looks to be the fire of 
rebellion and change. Among the Camarilla, we have 
almost as many personal causes as we do Brujah. In 
the Sabbat, however, the Brujah cause seems to have 
experienced a unity, a focus. The cause of many Sab-
bat Brujah is the Sabbat itself. At face value, this is 
neither good nor bad. Actually it’s a little of both, 
which causes the moderation — yes, it illustrates that 
the divisive Brujah can, under certain circumstances, 
strive toward a common goal. On the negative side, 
the common goal they espouse is the Sabbat, which 
any right-thinking Kindred immediately understands 
for the satanic lunacy it is. 
The methodology of the bloodline, though, is 
almost indistinguishable from that of a significant 
portion of the Camarilla Rabble. In fact, the only 
difference I’ve been able to observe is the philosophy 
behind it. I’ve watched frenzied Brujah tear apart 
police detectives in the name of the Masquerade. 
I’ve seen prince-appointed sheriffs sate their undead 
thirsts on urban latchkey children, burning the small, 
bloodless bodies in apartment-building incinerators. 
I’ve witnessed recently Embraced neonates from the 
gang culture rejoin their mortal affiliates with renewed 
bloodlust, drinking vitae from their fallen rivals. And 
I’ve seen the exact same things take place in Sabbat 
cities. It seems that the fight itself is irrelevant; whether 
the prince, the Ventrue or the mythical Antediluvians 
are the enemy, all’s fair in Brujah unlife and war. Pas-
sion fires the soul, which is what makes it possible for 
us to rise each night, sect be damned.
The Non-Consanguineous of Troile
Once again, I’ll spare you the history lesson.
A few others wouldn’t be so kind, however. Ac-
cording to a small but vocal minority of Brujah, mostly 
paranoid elders, Brujah himself managed to sire a brood 
that remained secret from his most noted childe, Troile. 
Most of us accept the treachery of those Biblical nights 
as par for the course and take it on faith that we’re 
descended from Troile.
As the tale unfolds, the members of this hidden 
brood have different proclivities than the rest of us 


Clanbook: Brujah
46
Brujah do. Apparently, their original powers influenced 
the flow of time itself, of which our own supernal speed 
is a pale and weak reflection. Additionally, we have 
diametrically opposed temperaments — apparently, 
the fiery Brujah Blood is actually a characteristic of 
Troile, as rumor attributes these “True Brujah” with a 
detached, dispassionate mien.
Pardon me if I seem a bit incredulous. Cainite his-
tory is rife with these conspiratorial heresies. Do you 
really think that a clan of opposite-and-more-potent 
vampires could exist without someone having some 
verifiable account of it? Such is not the case. Still, 
the tales do circulate, always as secondhand accounts 
at best.
My verdict: Until I see one, I’ll indulge my right to 
doubt. We don’t need any more bogeymen to distract us.
(Storyteller’s Note: More information on the 
True Brujah may be found in the Vampire Storytell-
ers Handbook.)
The Traditions
As much as any Brujah desires change and chal-
lenge, only the most die-hard anarchist would dare 
suggest dispensing with the Traditions. The Brujah 
joined the Camarilla after the Anarch Revolt — as 
much as certain Traditions pain us, most of us under-
stand the reason for the rule and at least pay it lip 
service. Not even the anarchs necessarily want to see 
the stone tablets of the Traditions hurled down and 
smashed beneath their feet (remember, I said necessar-
ily — some do, indeed). Without guidelines, society 
reverts to barbarism; this may appeal to some Nod-
dist Kindred heretics, but the rest of us see it for the 
devolution it is.
No, most Brujah fully comprehend the need for 
social structures. The underlying passion of a Brujah is 
most often not his desire to destroy existing structures 
for destruction’s sake, but rather as an opportunity to 
install some system that suits his own ends. Kindred 
of our clan run the gamut from reactionary feudalists 
and neofeudalists to radical communists, socialists and 
moral progressives. The desire to “smash the state” is 
all too often interpreted by other Cainites as petty 
anarchism. It’s not — it’s simply the first step toward 
creating an individual Brujah’s own vision of utopia. 
The six Traditions of the Camarilla serve some larger 
purpose for the Kindred, and most Brujah incorporate 
them into their own philosophies (assuming that said 
philosophies have reached maturity, which many 
haven’t). Only Kindred who would abolish things 
such as personal ownership refute the validity of the 
Tradition of Domain, for example, and even by do-
ing so, the abolitionists acknowledge domain in the 
breach rather than the rule. Obviously, such topics 
are more apropos to an elder debate than to a simple 
collection of observations, but never let it be said that 
I’m simplifying for my own sake.
Of course, I don’t mean to discount the anarchist 
presence among the Brujah by any means. They deserve 
their own investigation, but that comes later, away 
from discourse on the Traditions. 
The Masquerade
Ask any Brujah about the Ventrue and you 
probably work him into a lather. It’s not entirely un-
deserved — over the course of centuries, the Ventrue 
have placed themselves center stage in almost every 
rotten double-dealing that’s involved the Kindred. 
They can’t help it, if you ask me. Any time someone 
steps into a role of leadership, she’s got to make some 
significant decisions and the results are bound to piss 
someone off. So it is with the Ventrue. You think 
they’d learn to quit putting themselves in the line of 
fire, but they like it too much. I think they’re more 
comfortable there.
Same with the Toreador. We supposedly hate 
them almost as much as we hate the Ventrue. I’m 
not sure why — it’s probably guilt by association. 
Toreador and Ventrue have a lot of power invested 
in the institutions that we have problems with, so 
that might be where it comes from.
That notwithstanding, the best idea a vampire’s 
ever had came from a Toreador and a Ventrue. I don’t 
remember their names — only an elder would — but 
it’s pretty well accepted that the whole concept of 
the Masquerade was a joint effort on the part of these 
two clans.
Only the dumbest Brujah has a problem with the 
Masquerade. Rail as we might against the powers that 
be, we can’t find any fault with this one. First of all, it 
covers the obvious protection thing. Most of us aren’t 
stupid and we understand that the minute humankind 
suspects that vampires walk among them, it’s all over 
for us. A few of us even remember the nights of the 
Inquisition, when a handful of vampires protected 
their own sorry asses by feeding their childer to the 
witch-hunters. Now, I might not be representative 
of the clan as a whole, but I’d be hard pressed to sug-
gest that a single Brujah would prefer going to the 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
47
fire to laying low every now and then. Even when 
we act up, we usually do it with as few witnesses as 
possible. You know what I’m talking about — when 
some angry young Lick loses his temper and uses his 
vampiric strength to punch some poor slob through 
a wall, he’d better fake a convincing PCP freak-out 
or he’s going to be a pile of ash with the sheriff’s 
footprints in it.
If you pay attention, you can catch vampires 
when the Masquerade fails, and the Inquisition knows 
it. A few years ago, the Chicago Kindred had some 
trouble with the Lupines up there. Now, between 
the werewolves and the hunters, almost three dozen 
Kindred are dust. Three dozen! Your average city 
doesn’t even have three dozen Licks, let alone three 
dozen dead ones.
But that’s only part of why the Brujah generally 
think the Masquerade is a good idea. More so than 
any other Tradition, the Masquerade forces other 
Kindred to temper their affairs. Let’s say one of 
your Tremere rivals wants to devote his energies to 
acquiring a controlling interest in, say, a local freight 
expediter. He could stomp into the dispatcher’s office 
and use his formidable powers of mind control to tell 
him that he’s the one in charge — a simple, one-
shot affair. But if he did that, the dispatcher would 
no doubt attract some attention to himself, issuing 
strange assignments, making weekly deliveries to the 
witches’ coven at 1313 Mockingbird Lane, routing 
deliveries to other Kindred fronts through customs 
and insurance companies, and generally making 
unlife a pain in the neck for everyone else. When 
the higher-ups catch wind of what this dispatcher’s 
doing, they call him on it, and he says, “Well, that 
vampire over there told me to do it like this, and 
I couldn’t help myself.” End of dispatcher, end of 
vampire, end of the Kindred. 
Now, with the Masquerade in place, vampires 
are forced to respect the unlives of other Kindred by 
covering their own tracks. Instead of all that stuff 
happening because the Tremere walks in and puts a 
hex on the dispatcher, it happens because the company 
sinking its assets into the freight expediter’s stock says 
so, and the single greatest investor in that fund is our 
rival Tremere, who, through his “financial assistant” 
ghoul (who can operate in daytime, thus protecting 
the Masquerade), communicates to the fund man-
ager that this is how the investors want operations 
to commence, and if they don’t, the investors will 
back out, thus jeopardizing the expediter’s business. 
Convoluted? Hell, yes, but very effective at hiding 
us. But, because it’s so impenetrable, it requires a 
great deal of effort to affect the outside world. It’s 
hard to bring even one small operation under your 
thumb — whether it’s a legitimate business, an of-
fice of the local government, or even a rowdy bunch 
of street punks who specialize in creating insurance 
settlements — that the Kindred have to pick and 
choose which efforts they’ll focus on.
It also makes it easy to settle the score with your 
Tremere rival, should he get uppity — you can beat 
his ass into torpor and no one’s the wiser except for 
his ghoul, who’s running scared without a steady sup-
ply of vitae.
A great many Kindred are conspiracy theorists or 
mythology-upholding whack-jobs. You run into their 
hysterics from time to time: “The Ventrue control the 
banks! The Toreador control the mayor! The Malka-
vian Primogen has Dominated the Chief of Police so 
thoroughly that he can’t even take a piss without con-
sulting her!” This sort of thing is, quite plainly, bunk. 
What, the primogen has some sort of remote control 
that she clicks and makes the chief do her bidding? Do 
the banks set their exchange and interest rates based 
upon what the Ventrue decide when they wake up 
each evening? No, it’s more likely that a certain Ven-
true has cultivated vast amounts of influence in each 
bank, perhaps even sitting on a few boards of directors 
(probably under several assumed names). While this 
sort of thing is possible, it’s not practical because of 
the rigors imposed by the Masquerade. Then again, 
Kindred society is rife with such smoke and mirrors, 
and I’ll be damned if you could convince that Ventrue 
to admit that he doesn’t “control” the banks.
And that’s how the Masquerade helps us. Special 
thanks to the Ventrue and Toreador for putting it in 
place. Extra thanks to them for limiting their own 
interests in the process. Maybe they enjoy a challenge.
Domain
This Tradition constitutes one of what I have af-
fectionately dubbed the Two Great Hypocrisies of Clan 
Brujah. It doesn’t help that the Tradition itself is so 
fraught with ambiguity that no two princes interpret 
it the same way. In some cities, the Second Tradition 
is merely a predicate to the Traditions of Destruction 
and Hospitality. In others, princes allow the resident 
Kindred to establish their own domains. Who’s right? 
Nobody, so far as I can see — tight-fisted princes with 
the power to back their own claims can pretty much 
do what they want, while more liberal princes often 


Clanbook: Brujah
48
have more popular support at the expense of less 
temporal power. Both succeed and fail of their own 
accord. I know, I know — it’s just like everything else: 
like this except when it’s like that. Welcome to the 
duplicity of unlife.
Anyway, back to what I was talking about: do-
main. Now, remember that I’m largely considered an 
ancilla, having paid my dues, at least in a New World 
context. I’ll be damned if I can make heads or tails 
of this Tradition. On the one hand, it grants each 
Kindred the right to be king of his own castle — the 
mightiest Cainite prince is still a guest when he steps 
into the fetid haven of a sewer-dwelling Nosferatu 
and must (in theory) respect the customs of his host’s 
domicile. On the other hand — and please don’t 
get the impression that I’m in favor of this sort of 
absolutism — some princes interpret this Tradition 
to mean that their claim of princedom over a city 
makes them the penultimate power behind God, 
Fate or Whatever in their respective city. From the 
primogen down to the lowliest neonate, all Kindred 
exist with the prince’s permission in these cases, and 
he alone reserves the right to grant them the benefits 
of unlife in his domain.
Excuse me while I suppress a shudder.
While my own opinions aren’t at issue here, I 
uphold the views maintained by most Brujah — that 
the Traditions are a social contract established by 
the Kindred, not a declaration of the Divine Right 
of Princes. Even if the intent of the Traditions was 
to reinforce the more conservative interpretation of 
Domain, the Tradition itself must change to accom-
modate the more modern circumstances that now 
surround it. No Kindred Embraced within the last 
century is going to accept that some loud-mouthed 
prince owns his haven just because she’s older than 
he is. Granted, the prince may well take this tack, 
but without popular recognition of her position, a 
prince is just another Lick. If Chicago’s continual 
struggles over princedom don’t illustrate that, I don’t 
know what does, even if they don’t relate directly to 
the Tradition of Domain.
However, simple disagreement does not a valid 
opposition make. While my admittedly modern posi-
tion — each Kindred may indeed claim rights in her 
own domain — may differ from some European prince-
of-four-centuries’, as prince, her word is law and I’m 
bound to respect it in her city.
Along with the prince’s claims, many elders 
have also acquired rights to domains over the years. 
Whether as a reward for loyalty or service to a prince, 
as a result of their own considerable power or in direct 
accordance with a liberal prince’s grant of domain 
rights to all Kindred, an established Cainite may 
well have already made the claim over real estate 
that also falls under the domain of younger Kindred. 
I don’t have to tell you how this works out, do I? 
When Vlad the Elder’s claim comes in conflict with 
some neonate’s?
This is one of the fundamental problems plagu-
ing the Kindred in the modern nights — dwindling 
resources cannot support an ever-growing population of 
Cainites. A city that manages to appease 10 Kindred’s 
claims to domain is unlikely to satisfy the claims of 
11, unless each of the prior 10 gives up some little bit, 
and how likely is that among the nest of vipers that 
is the Camarilla?
This is what rankles the Brujah, and this is also 
what establishes domain as one of the hypocrisies to 
which I alluded. While the ancillae and neonates 
may rally against domains held by elders, in the same 
dead breath they execrate you for stepping on their 
turf. When some cagey elder and the neonates of the 
Blood Brothaz’ coterie simultaneously claim the Fifth 
Ward, how can the Blood Brothaz seriously oppose the 
elder? He claimed it first, but the neonates arguably 
have as much influence as he (though likely in very 
different realms), so who’s right?
In the end, no one’s right — the Tradition is so 
vague that it supports both sides of the argument and 
everything in between. And, as typically suits the 
Brujah, we support this Tradition when it benefits us 
and oppose it when it works against us. Just like any 
other vampire.
Progeny
The Tradition of Progeny is almost universally dis-
dained by the Brujah, who gladly stop fighting among 
themselves to unite against anyone who limits their 
choices, as this Tradition pretends to.
When you’re a Brujah, you Embrace who you want, 
and fuck anyone who stands in your way. However you 
interpret this Tradition, whether “elder” means your 
own sire, the recognized clan elder of a given city, or the 
prince herself, a childe is the sire’s responsibility. Mortals 
don’t ask their own parents if they may have children, 
and, as the Brujah reason, neither should Kindred have 
to petition some vague and arbitrary higher authority 
for the same right.
Why should they? As a conservative Brujah, 
my own outlook often differs from my brethren, 
but on this I think most of us achieve consensus. It 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
49
is, after all, easier to ask one’s “elder’s” (again, this 
is so ambiguous as to be superfluous) forgiveness 
than permission. Also, I hasten to point out, when 
an elder invokes the last tenet of this Tradition or 
calls upon the Tradition of Destruction, she damns 
herself. After all, the Beast loves to slake its thirst 
on blood, and an “elder” had better think long and 
hard about whether she values her authority or her 
humanity more. The Tradition grants her the right 
to kill illicit progeny, but does she really want to 
tempt the Beast by doing so? That’s why it’s easier 
to ask forgiveness, but it’s also a way to gain a 
new enemy.
On the topic of the Embrace, stereotype 
once again rears its head. Ask a Kindred of 
a different clan about whom the Brujah 
choose for their childer and you’re likely 
to receive one of two answers. You might 
hear, “Anyone they want,” in reference 
to our characteristic lack of discipline, 
or you may hear, “Anyone with a shaved 
head or a trench coat,” in reference to the 
perennially popular fashions among disenfranchised 
youth. Again, some degree of both stereotypes is true.
While the Brujah’s id-dominated temperaments 
may lead us to Embrace a bit more cavalierly than 
other Kindred, we most certainly do not simply walk 
down the street and Embrace whomever strikes 
our fancy. Sires of all but the most inconsiderate 
ilk single out individuals with whom they feel 
some sense of kinship. As with many Kindred, 
lovers often receive the Embrace, though these 
doomed relationships often cool after the Becom-
ing, leaving disaffected sires and resentful childer. 
Talented underlings sometimes receive the Embrace, 
particularly among the gangs and syndicates to which 
many young Brujah belong. Many Brujah maintain 
a strong sense of family, for which the clan makes a 
woefully inadequate surrogate. These Brujah may well 
Embrace along family lines, such as the Almodovar 
lineage in northern Spain or the ethnic broods 
that pop up every now and again during times of 
political dissension. Then again, a particular 
Brujah might have a dire need for muscle and 
Embrace the meanest bat-wielding thug he 
can find.
The common thread for almost every 
Brujah Embrace is utility. I don’t use that 
word in the sense that Brujah Embrace 
people to use them or screw them out of 


Clanbook: Brujah
50
something, but that they gain something personal 
(if temporary) from the Embrace. Whether they are 
combating the loneliness that afflicts every Kindred 
at some point during her unlife or simply populating 
a gang of like-minded (or simple-minded) Kindred, 
the Embrace almost universally satisfies some need 
of the sire. We aren’t as loose with the Embrace 
as are some Gangrel, whom I have heard may well 
leave behind a childe without ever even telling 
her what she has become. True, Brujah probably 
populate much of the ranks of the Caitiff, but those 
are more likely instances in which the sire realizes 
that the childe is not what he wanted and left them 
behind before they became an obligation. Not that 
I’m condoning such acts — they strike me as the 
height of irresponsibility — but such things happen 
in the modern nights.
And then we have the anomalies — those strange 
Kindred we sometimes encounter and think to our-
selves, “Who would Embrace him?” I’m not referring to 
“failed Kindred” or wretched childer. I’m talking about 
those vampires whose mortal lives and even unlives 
seem so radically unsuited to the Curse of Caine that 
they engender incredulity when one hears their story. 
I personally know two Brujah who were NFL athletes 
in life, one of whom played in at least one Pro Bowl. I 
know Brujah who were mailmen, aerospace engineers, 
cattle farmers and ad executives, none of whom at first 
glance seem to carry the passionate spark that unites 
the rest of the clan (in purpose, if not in practice). 
The rationale I offer is this: The Brujah move 
through so many mortal circles and cultivate so many 
contacts that, inevitably, one of us meets someone 
“outside the box.” Then, either becoming smitten with 
her or learning that a genuinely vibrant person lies 
beneath the veneer, She’s Embraced in a fit of enthu-
siasm. In the end, anomalies are more common than 
one would think, but few of them ever find themselves 
pegged as Brujah. 
I think this helps us as much, if not more, than it 
hinders us. I know many Kindred who discount the 
words of Brujah, no matter how earnest, based on the 
speaker’s clan — they pass off whatever idea the Kin-
dred has as the ravings of a maniac or insurgent. Still 
others subscribe to the old hoodlums-in-biker-jackets 
view of the clan and pass off every Kindred claiming 
Brujah lineage as a violent brute. In the modern nights, 
when secrecy is of the highest order, playing one’s 
cards close to the chest may well be the best tactic. I 
have advised princes, who thought I belonged to the 
Toreador or Ventrue, simply because I did not fit their 
arbitrary notion of “Brujah.” I also hasten to point out 
that none of these princes still claim that title. Perhaps 
their prejudices proved their undoing.
In the end, of course, it’s all up to the sire. For 
every Embrace that perpetuates the archetype, another 
defies it utterly. If the sire is a cookie-cutter rebel, her 
choice of childer is likely to reflect that. If the sire has 
the awareness to look beyond the surface, her childe is 
probably nothing like her in personality. I believe this 
allowed the Brujah to survive and prosper — while 
many other clans burden themselves with affectations 
and guidelines that restrict their choices of childer, the 
Brujah have availed themselves of an ever-growing 
stock of new blood. As such, while the Tremere or the 
Ventrue may be the most powerful clan of the modern 
nights, the Brujah are certainly the most reflective of 
the times themselves. It is in this role that I see the 
Brujah’s true purpose — we aren’t the turgid anarchists 
who tear down the establishment, but rather the proph-
ets of a new era who pave the way by building upon 
the lessons of the past while looking to the trends of 
the future. No other clan, save perhaps the Toreador 
and a few of the young Sabbat, so represent the times 
from which they are drawn.
Accounting
As far as I can tell, Brujah seem to be of two minds 
on this matter. Respect for the Accounting doesn’t 
have the gray area that clan interpretations of the 
other Traditions do, nor does it suffer the unilateral 
disdain of the Tradition of Progeny. The division 
doesn’t appear to be along any political lines, but 
depends solely on the personality of the sire herself. 
Instructing the childe is as personal an issue as select-
ing one for the Embrace.
At first, we have the flawed half of the equation, 
those who Embrace and leave their childer to the 
vagaries of the modern nights. These are Brujah who 
may Embrace at their whim, rolling through a city on 
the backs of their panhead Harleys and leaving doomed 
childer in their wakes, or who are such hardcore in-
dividualists as to give their childer no instruction at 
all on the ways of the Kindred. Presentation of their 
childer and other contrivances mean nothing to these 
Brujah — they’ve sired their childer, and now it’s time 
to move on. In a grim reflection of the mortal adage, 
“Anyone can make a child, but not just anyone can be a 
mother or father,” these sires leave their childer to their 
fates. It’s fairly common for these abandoned bastards to 
fall in among the bitter anarchs or suffer bleak, lonely 
unlives as Caitiff or Autarkis. My own sire was of this 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
51
latter variety; after a few nights of accompanying me 
on my railway travels, he left me to my own devices. 
I learned much from those frontier Camarilla cities 
and from the Sabbat-dominated streets of New York 
after the imprisonment of Boss Tweed, choosing my 
fate and making a name for myself. If nothing else, I 
am a testament to the fact that not every poorly sired 
childe is a waste, and, after convincing the Prince of 
Atlanta to recognize me in 1876, I joined the august 
body of the Kindred.
More responsible Brujah take an active and domi-
nant role in educating a childe about the intricacies of 
the Curse of Caine. They instruct their childer on all 
matters, much as I did my own childe. Granted, sires 
rarely rise above the very Kindred habit of coloring 
this education with their own prejudices — I have 
to admit that I instilled in Vanessa a potent mistrust 
of the very idea of the Tremere — but the fact that 
sires spend so much time taking their childer under 
their wing attests to the gravity with which some 
Brujah sires choose childer. In many cases, these 
Kindred are not those who stand to gain a great deal 
from their childe’s appearance in Kindred society — 
the childer of anarchs are as likely to be extensively 
instructed in the ways of Cainite unlife as are the 
favored broodlings of a revered primogen. Sires may 
dote on their childer or ride them mercilessly, but 
the result is the same — these Brujah choose to be 
responsible for their childer, at least until the release 
specified by the Tradition.
In one of my rare moments of pride in my clan, I 
must extol the virtue of this practice. Were we Brujah 
somehow able to conjure a consistent vision of the 
ephemeral utopias we seek, I have no doubt that it, 
like our childer, would receive loving attention, at 
least until we grew agitated and saw the need to tear it 
down and begin anew. The amount of love we invest 
in our creations attests to this.
I also believe this pride carries over into the 
period of Accounting. Brujah sires stoically bear 
responsibility for the actions of their childer, even 
those Embraced without the consent of the prince. 
I’m given to wonder if the Accounting isn’t a Bru-
jah “amendment” to the Traditions — the clan is 
proud to a fault, but is not without its own sense 
of obligation.
In line with this, the Brujah release may be a grand 
affair. Surely, many young sires or Kindred without 
much stake in the social order simply release their 
childer with a wave of the hand and the warning, 
“Don’t get caught feeding,” but others go the whole 
nine yards. I’ve attended elaborate release galas ev-
erywhere from the Riviera to Stockton. Let me be 
the first to tell you, when some Brujah release their 
childer into Kindred society, you’d think it was the 
second coming of Caine. Some of these ceremonies 
are wild revels, taking place over the span of several 
nights and resembling mortal bachelor parties, in 
which the childe is kidded, embarrassed, indulged, 
and finally returned to his haven, whereupon waking 
the next night, he is a full member of the brother-
hood of the undead. 
I’m reminded of the release rave held just a 
few years ago by one of the New Orleans Brujah, 
Jake Almerson. The affair was a madhouse — a 
three-night debauch to which every freak, punk, 
head, goth and weirdo in town had been surrepti-
tiously “invited,” mortal and Kindred alike. For 
those three days, the party raged out of control, 
as ghouls and mortals kept the place in full swing 
while the Kindred retired to their havens, only to 
return once the sun had set. The venue, a dilapi-
dated smuggler’s haven just a few blocks from the 
bay, was crawling with prostitutes, drug dealers, 
hard-core party fiends and even a few cops who 
came by but decided that there was nothing they 
could do to rein in the debacle. They could have 
called the National Guard, I suppose, but this was 
New Orleans, and the party wasn’t a threat to any-
one who didn’t have it coming. When Almerson’s 
childe, Natasia, showed up at some point during 
the second night, the place caught fire as someone’s 
flaming tribute spread to what was left of the heavy 
taffeta curtains. Sixteen people were carted away 
to hospitals, victims of drug overdoses, alcohol 
poisoning or Kindred-inflicted “exhaustion.” Truly, 
it was an utter bacchanal. 
On the other hand, more serious sires may make 
a grave and somber procession out of their childer’s 
releases. This is particularly true of the more staid 
among the elders and those Brujah so consumed with 
their own causes that they no longer allow themselves 
to enjoy unlife. The aforementioned release on the 
Riviera was one of these, much to my surprise. I had 
expected an aristocratic soiree, but the release of 
François d’Hautmont, while scandalous in its own 
right (for one of the d’Hautmonts back in history had 
been a Toreador), was a reserved ceremony, taking 
an hour for the formal release itself, followed by a 
sociable reception afterward.


Clanbook: Brujah
52
I believe most Brujah prefer some moderation of 
these two extremes — a civil acknowledgement of 
one’s Brujah heritage and enough excess afterward to 
make the affair more than just self-indulgence. Perhaps 
my own lack of formal release colors my opinion on 
this, but this is what many of my peers express. The 
sincerity of the matter I leave to interpretation.
Hospitality
You knew it was coming — the other Great Hy-
pocrisy of Clan Brujah.
Whereas I suspect the previous Tradition of having 
a Brujah origin, I suspect this one of being contrived 
solely to anger the Rabble. Read the wording: “The 
one who ruleth there” and “Without the word of ac-
ceptance, thou art nothing.”
Granted, this Tradition has been around since 
the inception of the Camarilla and probably for 
a thousand years before that, but come on. Has 
a vampire ever ruled a city? Maybe at some point 
back in the nights of kings and emperors, but even 
then, was it common? I doubt it. No, this seems 
to be more of a nod to the natural arrogance that 
afflicts Kindred when they find themselves claim-
ing princedom. Even the word itself, prince, is an 
analogy rather than a concrete political office. All a 
prince does is interpret and enforce the Traditions, 
ostensibly for the good of all Kindred in a given city. 
Show me a prince who claims to “rule” a city and 
I’ll show you a sad, deluded Cainite. Still, wording 
this Tradition so anachronistically ensures that 
the Brujah are going to be up in arms about it. As 
a clan that makes challenging the status quo their 
badge of honor, the Brujah make it their business 
to prove you wrong the minute you tell them they 
have to do something, especially when it’s because 
you claim to be their ruler. Unless they choose to, 
most Brujah acknowledge no masters.
As for, “thou are nothing,” that’s more unfortunate 
wording. According to the Tradition, of course, this 
refers to the protection granted by the Camarilla. If 
you don’t show up and introduce yourself to the prince, 
you can claim none of the common Kindred rights 
in that city. But by phrasing it in that manner, the 
preservers of the Traditions have practically ensured 
that the Brujah will do everything in their power to 
become “something” in spite of having no formal ap-
proval from the prince. Kindred who “are nothing” 
have overthrown princes in the past, joined anarch 
factions, undermined princes’ personal investments 
and far worse. It’s rumored that an otherwise satisfied 
Brujah made it possible for the Sabbat of Miami to 
finally capture that city, forcing it out of contention 
and firmly under the influence of that sect, at least 
as far as Kindred are concerned. Why? All because 
the haughty would-be prince refused to acknowledge 
a visiting member of the clan.
I don’t wish to overestimate the power of Clan 
Brujah in this matter. Far be it for me to rally to the 
causes of clan, queen and country. On the contrary, 
I’m saying that if you want to irk a Brujah, use the 
Traditions against her. As a sideline commentator, 
I’d suggest that the Camarilla is currently in no posi-
tion to get uppity with its allies. The Gangrel have 
left the fold, and it would be no surprise if a sizeable 
faction of Brujah turned their back on it as well, 
owing to just this sort of backhanded benefice. Yes, 
the Tradition means well, but not every Brujah is as 
aware or reasonable as myself.
Regarding why it is the Second Great Hypocrisy, 
look no further than the personal practices of most 
Brujah. More than many of the other clans, we are 
territorial. Yes, the Nosferatu have their feared war-
rens, but no one wants those. The Gangrel likewise 
are welcome to their desolate domains, which are 
usually either Lupine-plagued stretches of worthless 
real estate outside the city proper or barren alleyways 
teeming with vermin. The Tremere are welcome to 
their forbidding chantries; except for the chance to 
steal or destroy something the Warlocks consider 
valuable, you wouldn’t catch a Brujah near the witch 
houses anyway. 
The other clans of the Camarilla either un-
derstand the value of diplomacy when it comes to 
domain, or just don’t care. Not us. Young Brujah 
agitators claim “turf.” Elder Brujah pontificate at 
length about how they’ve earned the right to their 
domains. Ancillae make it plain that their interests 
are theirs alone, and anyone attempting to transgress 
will suffer their attentions. Do you see where I’m 
headed with this? For a clan that’s so resentful of others 
imposing limits on them, they spare no time in mark-
ing their own territory and (at least theoretically) 
establishing similar limits on others. Granted, if an 
elder decides to stroll through the territory claimed 
by some Brujah gang, he’ll probably be able to do it 
unchallenged, but they resident gang will certainly 
work themselves up to righteous indignation over it. 
With the same hostility, the Brujah will howl at the 
prince for demanding that they present themselves in 
his domain and hurl acrimony at Kindred who have 
the temerity to walk on a street they claim as their 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
53
own. Obviously, not every Brujah is a blustering gang lord 
out to validate her claims to turf, but many harbor a sense 
of ownership over territory, as long as it’s theirs and not 
yours. It’s enough to make one shake his head in shame.
Destruction
Brujah reaction to this Tradition is as wide and varied 
as the members of the clan itself. In the opinion of most, 
this Tradition is useful, preventing, ahem, unnecessary 
Final Death (and believe me, in a clan that resorts to 
violence as often as the Brujah do, we’re no strangers 
to it), thereby taking that weapon out of the hands 
of those who haven’t earned it. Less popular is the 
Tradition’s second tenet, which grants the right 
of destruction to an individual’s elder, though I 
attribute this lack of acceptance to the fact that 
some princes have the audacity to infer that 
they are the only elder to the clause refers 
to. It’s plain as day to me and most other 
Brujah that “elder” here means “sire,” 
and if it turns out that you’ve Embraced a 
potential disgrace or threat, it’s your duty 
to put the matter to rest. Even as a firm 
supporter of the Camarilla, I have trouble 
allowing princes to deny or usurp the rights of 
sires, under whatever pretense.
Still, most Brujah accede the Tradition of 
Destruction to princes and their councils in 
matters of larger Kindred concern. This 
doesn’t necessarily mean a blood hunt (see 
below) — when a Kindred’s sire isn’t present 
to invoke this Tradition when it needs to be 
invoked, then it’s the prince’s responsibility 
to step in and do it in her absence. Instead of 
speaking in generality, I’ll give you an example: When 
I visited Ulster, decades ago, the city’s Kindred were 
in the throes of their sporadic war with the city of 
Dublin. (This does become a bit confusing. Most 
of the United Kingdom and Ireland’s princedoms 
encompass wider geographical regions 
than just cities, and are known as, I 
think, fiefdoms. Ulster is its own fief-
dom, but Connachta, the fiefdom that 
includes Dublin, is where the prince 
makes his haven). When one of Ulster’s 
up-and-coming ancillae turned out to be 
a Connachta-fiefdom sympathizer, the 
Kindred had no idea what to do with her. 
Destruction initially seemed a bit extreme, 
so the Kindred of Ulster “suggested” that 
since the ancilla was such a supporter of 
Connachta, perhaps she should relocate 


Clanbook: Brujah
54
her haven there. She refused. Her sire had long since 
met the Final Death or moved on or otherwise left 
her to her own devices, and could exert none of her 
own influence over this agitating childe.
Prince Milesius of Ulster finally had no choice 
but to demand her destruction, owing to the fact 
that her continued existence in Ulster threatened 
the fiefdom’s Kindred sovereignty. Since she refused 
to leave, and indeed, wanted to bring the fiefdom 
under the influence of another, Prince Milesius’ 
only recourse was to remove her. Amazingly, the 
Ulster Brujah supported him. Despite the fact that 
the ancilla stood against the established system, 
despite the fact that she was willing to die for 
her political stance, and, perhaps strangest of all, 
despite the fact that she wanted to bring Ulster 
under the purview of Connachta’s Kindred council, 
which is dominated by Brujah, the Ulster Brujah 
stood behind Milesius’s call for her destruction. 
More than anything else, this illustrates that in-
dividual Brujah will suffer any hardship for what 
they believe is right, and that allegiances do not 
always fall along clan lines. To the Ulster Brujah, 
the individuality of Ulster was more important 
than putting a Brujah-influenced outside primogen 
in charge of their affairs. Over the intervening 
decades, I’ve seen similar situations several times, 
and not just in Europe.
With regard to blood hunts, my experience with 
them has been that most of them aren’t actually 
called against Brujah. Blood hunts, when they’re 
not political vendettas maintained by corrupt or 
power-mad princes, keep the Kindred functional; 
they remove troublesome elements from our ranks. 
And by that I don’t mean rivals or people who 
upstaged the prince at Elysium. Remember, I’m 
talking about the ones that are justified. In most 
cases, reasonable blood hunts are called against 
Masquerade-breakers, Kindred who otherwise flout 
the Traditions, or those so far degenerated that ei-
ther the Beast has claimed them utterly or they have 
thrown in with the Sabbat. Most Brujah actually 
approve of blood hunts, as long as they’re not the 
subjects, because it gives them an opportunity to 
find the perpetrator, let off a little steam by kicking 
his ass, and maybe come one step closer to Caine 
with a bit of Camarilla-sanctioned diablerie. Then 
again, I am talking about legitimately called blood 
hunts, which have happened perhaps twice in the 
history of the Camarilla. 
Brujah and 
the Camarilla 
Political Machine
A minority of Brujah sometimes find themselves 
entangled in the Byzantine politics of the Camarilla. 
Whether consciously or through acts of fate, most of 
these Brujah, because the majority of the clan places 
itself outside such concerns, end up making names for 
themselves. They also frequently find themselves re-
sented or feared by other Brujah, again because so much 
of the clan wants little to do with the established power 
structure. Still, that’s no reason to discount these august 
or compromising Brujah — although the clan doesn’t 
consider the Camarilla its enemy, most consider it the 
most convenient of two evils, and anyone who makes 
themselves a part of that body is obviously buying into 
the propaganda.
Granted, this isn’t always true. In some cases, of 
course, you have Brujah who don’t want any part of 
their legacy of rebellion and see the Camarilla as a way 
to get what they want. Others look to the sect’s long 
history and assume that the elders have it easy because 
they enjoy the benefits of wealth, power and respect, 
and attempt to climb the ladder. Both of these sorts of 
Kindred are in for unpleasant surprises. At its core, the 
Camarilla knows exactly what it is: a genteel society of 
monsters whose own best interest lies in pretending that 
they’re not. The naive Kindred believes that an elder’s 
unlife consists of sipping sherry and hosting cotillions, 
exchanging quick-witted drollery and lounging about the 
haven in velvet dressing gowns. Look upon the elders 
without such delusion, however, and the truth becomes 
plain. Elder unlife is one of constant plotting against 
one’s peers just to keep one’s current station. The Brujah 
primogen does not continue to accumulate creature 
comforts throughout her centuries of unlife; rather, she 
fights tooth and claw against the depredations of other 
elders — often including those of her own clan — to 
simply keep what she’s already acquired. Likewise, fetes 
thrown by Kindred provide a respite from normal nightly 
concerns. More than other Kindred, elders embody the 
static nature of the undead — their nights lack distinc-
tion, each of a million awakenings bleeding seamlessly 
into the next. The Brujah are no different.
This is another reason why the Brujah have 
joined the Camarilla — it gives them purpose. 
Without an authority against which to scheme, the 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
55
Brujah are just agitated, meaningless vampires. We 
need the Camarilla, if only to use it and say we don’t. 
Thus, the Jyhad becomes a central facet of Brujah 
unlife. Even those who do not actively take part 
often wind up dragged into the schemes of another, 
often unwittingly. The rogue cell of anarchs that 
wants nothing to do with elder games becomes a 
weapon one Kindred uses against another. The 
neonate Brujah detective who distances himself 
from Kindred society arrests an individual who 
happens to be the prince’s favored ghoul. Even 
the reluctant Kindred firebrand who surrounds 
himself with activism in mortal concerns colors 
the political climate of his city — he certainly 
doesn’t escape the eyes of the Kindred. From 
the treacherous, backstabbing primogen to 
the most seemingly oblivious fledgling, the 
Brujah cannot help but play their part in the 
Camarilla’s destiny.
I don’t mean to imply that every Brujah 
exists at the sole discretion of the Camarilla, 
or that we run about on myriad petty errands 
for our elders. In fact, the elders themselves 
often have nothing to do with the nightly 
affairs undertaken by other Kindred. Quite 
the contrary! Because the Camarilla has 
made it possible for the race of Cainites to 
flourish, it makes the Kindred a part of it 
unless they consciously distance themselves 
from it by actively becoming Autarkis or 
joining the ranks of the infernal Sabbat. 
Even if she avoids Elysium and interacts 
with other Kindred only once a year, every 
Brujah exists in a world that would destroy 
her if it knew about her, but doesn’t because 
of the Camarilla’s efforts.
Don’t misinterpret me — the Camarilla is 
plagued with problems. But by and large, it fulfills 
its purpose, and that is precisely what keeps the 
Brujah involved with it. It may not work perfectly, 
but it works.
The Prince
Few cities have Brujah princes. The ones that 
do probably won’t have them for long. Not only 
do members of other clans find Brujah princes too 
capricious or emotional for (in their opinion) the 
long-term safety of the city, few Brujah have tastes 
that accommodate the tedium associated with 
the position.


Clanbook: Brujah
56
This is truer of New World princedoms. European 
Brujah often have very different outlooks than their 
American counterparts, and are more often in line 
with the “idealist” archetype, even among neonates. 
The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, for example, has a 
Brujah as its current prince, and she has claimed that 
title for over a century.
Making generalizations about Brujah princes is 
difficult. So few Rabble claim the title that any simi-
larities between them are more likely coincidences 
than policies. Suffice it to say that Brujah princes are 
anomalies, and not often remembered fondly.
The Primogen
In Camarilla politics, the real spotlight for the 
Brujah elder is of course the primogen’s position. 
Beneath all of the pomp, primogen have damned 
few responsibilities, though they’re often the most 
respected Kindred in the cities where they make 
their havens. This is particularly true of the Brujah, 
because no one really expects individual Rabble to 
follow some arbitrary edict handed down from on 
high by a Kindred who has nothing in common with 
the younger Cainites of his clan. As such, a Brujah 
primogen has the attention that his title garners with 
very few of the duties that accompany it for elders 
of other clans.
This isn’t to say that the Brujah primogen doesn’t 
represent his clan’s interests. A city’s collection of 
Brujah rarely has any common interests, however, 
and the Brujah primogen may safely push his own 
agenda and his “constituents” are usually none the 
wiser. The Brujah primogen who earns the hostility 
of his “lessers,” however, may well find himself ousted 
from the position, or the offended young Brujah may 
even beg the prince’s ear, informing her that their 
primogen, quite frankly, isn’t representing the clan 
very reliably. What the prince chooses to do in this 
situation is up to her, but rarely does anything a young 
vampire says fall upon deaf ears, because they’re the 
most in touch with the current state of the city.
What, then, does a Brujah primogen do besides 
watch his ass and throw around the weight of his 
position? A valid question. The Brujah primogen 
satisfies members of his clan not by acting as a 
lobby for them so much as he challenges the goals 
and actions of the other primogen. In essence, 
the most pressing responsibility of the Brujah pri-
mogen is to act as Devil’s Advocate for the other 
primogen. While this might initially seem petty or 
counterproductive, consider that he’s not acting 
against the other primogen (usually), he’s simply 
questioning their methods and motives. Such be-
havior distracts and confounds the other primogen, 
and young or rebellious Brujah appreciate this role. 
On another level, the Brujah primogen is almost a 
Socratic advisor to the prince; he not only exposes 
the activities of other elders, but he leads the prince 
to a better understanding of what they intend to do 
and how it differs from what they’re doing. Yes, this 
is fairly vague — time for another anecdote.
Las Vegas is one of those strange cities that’s 
not really “contested,” even though several factions 
clash over the city’s gambling industry. The prince 
is a Ventrue named Benedic. He takes a fairly liberal 
approach to the whole matter (which is probably 
why he’s still there; a heavier-handed prince would 
no doubt have earned far more enemies). The big 
non-Camarilla presence in town is the Giovanni. 
Benedic would have driven the Giovanni out of 
town already if he didn’t have to attend to the details 
of princedom — if he could devote his full time to 
foiling the Giovanni, the Necromancers would have 
given up a long time ago. 
Now, the Giovanni have probably as many 
Kindred in Vegas as the Camarilla does, but their 
scope is more limited: They’re more focused but less 
diverse. While the Giovanni clash with Benedic, his 
Ventrue, and the Toreador almost every night, they’re 
outclassed on the street, in the churches and in most 
of the non-gambling local business. 
A Toreador elder named Sands (who has appar-
ently met the Final Death, if the rumors are true, 
thanks no doubt to Brujah enmity or the double-
crossed Giovanni) was also a mover and shaker in 
Las Vegas; many Kindred looked to him rather than 
Benedic for guidance. 
Unbeknownst to everyone, Sands cut a deal 
with the Giovanni in late 1996. He didn’t want to 
be prince himself. No, Sands thought he’d be hap-
pier if the city was independent. It’s not that he was 
answering to Benedic, but Benedic had significant 
influence over a local investment company that 
looked like quite the plum to Sands. Now, Sands 
realized that murdering a prince has some pretty 
dire repercussions, and he didn’t want the enmity of 
the entire Camarilla. He figured that if he can take 
Benedic out of the picture and force him to make 
his haven elsewhere, his influence in the venture-
capital company would wane, leaving it ripe for 
another vampire to exploit. 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
57
The nature of Sands’s deal with the Giovanni 
was to attack Benedic from both sides. If the 
Giovanni redoubled their efforts among the ca-
sinos and in the local black market, they could 
make visible overtures at usurping Benedic’s power 
base. Once Benedic’s ability to back his claim of 
princedom came into dispute, Sands planned to 
publicly call Benedic’s reputation into question, 
further eroding his power. With Benedic on the 
defensive and the Giovanni working double time 
to hamstring him, the princedom would crumble. 
At that point, with the Giovanni interests unchal-
lenged and their influence so solidified, no new 
prince could step in and claim the title without 
the Giovanni stopping him. A nice plan, but it 
didn’t work.
Sands acted too early. Just as the Giovanni 
began squeezing the casinos (whether they 
were the dominant interest there or 
not, to the resentment of many 
local Kindred), Sands began his 
smear campaign, starting with the 
young Cainites of Vegas. The way 
he figured it, the neonates were in 
better touch with him than Benedic, 
and his sniffing around would go un-
noticed until Benedic’s doom seemed 
certain, at which point he would look 
like he smelled disaster on the wind 
all along. 
The Brujah primogen, being no fool, felt 
the pinch the Giovanni put on the casinos 
and heard all manner of tales from the streets 
about Sands slumming with the younger Licks. 
Putting two and two together, the primogen 
suspected a coup — incorrect, but close enough 
to the truth to bring it up in Elysium. Later, a 
captured Giovanni ball breaker cracked under the 
pressure and owned up to the clan’s involvement in 
the whole scheme. The Giovanni, not being mem-
bers of the Camarilla, hung Sands out to dry. Benedic 
made Sands an object of public ridicule. The Brujah 
primogen laughed all the way to the bank, having 
crippled the Toreador’s plot and put the prince in 
his debt.
That’s how Brujah primogen work. Schem-
ing bastards to the last, but if they’re not on their 
clanmates’ side, at least they’re against their rivals as well.
The Sheriff
The sheriff if the position most commonly held by Brujah in 
the Camarilla, primogen notwithstanding. I’m sure that doesn’t 


Clanbook: Brujah
58
surprise anyone. Given the Brujah penchant for 
violence and capacity to hurt people, the Brujah 
are natural sheriffs.
In fact, I’d hazard a guess that most sheriffs are 
Brujah. I don’t have any evidence other than the 
anecdotal to back this up, but in the overwhelming 
majority of cities I’ve visited, the sheriff is not only a 
member of Clan Brujah, he’s the first to tell you about 
it. It’s almost like a credential: “I’m Steve Reno, Clan 
Brujah, Sheriff of Houston,” like it was his last name 
or something. Where I come from, people keep their 
clans to themselves, unless they’re trying to mislead 
you into thinking that they’re something less than 
they are, just another walking stereotype. Among the 
Brujah sheriffs, though, clan is almost a qualification 
for the title. Throwing his clan into the introduction 
certifies that the sheriff will fuck up someone’s shit if 
they mess with him.
It’s not that Brujah are unsuited to the position. 
Quite the opposite. The supernatural speed and 
strength the Brujah command grants us a physical 
edge when fulfilling sheriff’s duties, and our mystical 
ability to increase our force of personality doesn’t hurt 
when you’re yelling at some empty-headed anarch 
who’s convinced himself that burning down an art 
museum is the best way to cripple the Toreador power 
base in the city.
The Scourge
This is another natural fit, given the physical 
nature of the job. The biggest difference I’ve seen, 
though, lies in the attitude. Whereas the Brujah sher-
iffs I’ve dealt with have been, in a word, dutiful, most 
of the scourges I’ve seen have been, in three words, 
sadistic as hell. I’m serious. Granted, the scourge’s 
responsibility is less… well, just, for lack of a better 
word, than the sheriff’s is. The sheriff’s job is to en-
force the prince’s interpretation of the Traditions. 
The scourge’s job is to kill Kindred.
Killing people becomes easier the more one does 
it. I’ve heard that from soldier types all throughout 
my century-plus among the undead. I suppose it’s 
true when it’s your responsibility. Me, I’ve never 
been comfortable with killing. I understand that I’m 
a vampire and a predator and all that, but there’s 
nothing anywhere that says we have to kill our prey 
— if we follow reasonable unlives and don’t depend 
too heavily on blood to fuel the gifts of Caine, we 
can get by without ever taking a life. Barring the 
inevitable frenzy, no one needs to die.


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
59
Not so with the scourge. Killing becomes easier 
and easier because that’s what the scourge does — 
not only does he become better at it, it becomes less 
difficult for him to rationalize his murders. For this 
reason, most of the scourges you meet who have been 
at their profession for any length of time are either 
completely alien or unapproachably cold. Killing has 
become so commonplace for them that the simple 
destruction of Kindred no longer thrills them. These 
are the scourges who torment their victims, or end 
unlives in cruel ways. I’ve watched a scourge kill his 
prey by driving over her in a pickup truck and then 
backing over her to make sure the job was finished. 
It disturbed me far more than it disturbed the person 
who actually did it.
Of course, this isn’t endemic to the Brujah state 
of mind. It’s just that, again, due to the physical re-
quirements of being a scourge, many princes choose 
their slayers from the ranks of the ever-capable Clan 
Brujah.
The Harpies
And you thought Toreador harpies were bitchy.
Brujah make very effective harpies. I don’t say 
they make “fine” harpies because there’s nothing fine 
about the way they act. Combining a vicious streak 
that only the dead can muster with the passion and 
social awareness of the Brujah results in one hell of 
a fiendish creature. With the Toreador, all you have 
to worry about is if your tie’s crooked or if you’re 
wearing last year’s fragrance. When you’re dealing 
with Brujah harpies, you’d better tell them exactly 
what they want to hear or your social life will consist 
of scrubbing eggs thrown by neighborhood kids off 
the front door of your tract-home haven in the sub-
urbs where they’ve decided you best belong. Brujah 
harpies aren’t usually as susceptible to flattery as are 
harpies of other clans. Either they know they’re all 
that and don’t care what anyone else has to say or 
their harpy-ness stems from being so far removed 
from what others think of them that they’re hailed 
as visionaries of the cutting-edge social order. Like 
Joan Rivers, if she drank blood.
My own experiences with harpies have not been 
pleasant.
The Rabble’s Ruck and Run
Naturally, with few titles to go around and so 
many Kindred vying for them, some are going to be 
left without position. Indeed, most Brujah among the 
Camarilla claim no title at all, no matter how humble, 
and are satisfied to deal with things that they think 
are important. Good for us, er, them!
Seriously, most Brujah pass through the lower 
echelons of society — it’s what we know best, and 
it’s what we’ve secured from the greedy talons of 
other Kindred. To them, there’s nothing glamor-
ous about providing for one’s unlife by selling 
methamphetamines to club kids or by pimping 
desperate hookers in the red light district. In one 
sense, they’re right — why squander immortality 
on drugs and whores?
In another context, they’re completely wrong. 
Like no other clan, we Brujah have made our own 
place in the modern world. With the exception of the 
Gangrel, who can’t be said to make the best of their 
unlives at all, the Rabble have reinvented ourselves 
with every advancement society has made. No other 
clan can claim that. The Toreador still cling to out-
dated aristocracy. The Ventrue are nothing more than 
greedy medieval merchants. The Tremere’s obsession 
with rituals and incantations leaves them ill equipped 
to function in the mundane world.
That’s why the Brujah, for all the street-level 
grit we slog through, are proud. I’m not immune to 
it myself; for all the grief I give my clan, I certainly 
don’t want to be part of another. That’s why we 
Brujah thrive. We meet the challenges the world 
puts in front of us — we don’t buy our way out of 
them or pretend that they’re too vulgar for us. We 
Brujah get out there and get our hands dirty. The 
young Kindred you see, the ones best acclimated to 
the world, who meet everything the modern nights 
have to offer — they’re Brujah. Until we become 
static elders (which takes centuries), we’re there at 
all the parties. We’re on the A-list, because we’re 
fashionably unconventional. Even those of us who 
still belong to the older countercultures do it because 
we’re devoted to it — the Hell’s Angel Brujah love the 
open road and the Luddite Brujah genuinely believe 
that technology will bring about the end. No other 
Kindred can claim that.
Remember that as the Final Nights approach. As 
the top tiers of the Camarilla rot with incestuous-
ness and avarice, more and more elders turn their 
backs on the world to immerse themselves in their 
inscrutable power games. Kindred society is built 
upon the Brujah, and the Brujah exist to tear down 
the old ways in favor of the new. And that’s why, of 
all the mighty Kindred clans, we’re the ones who will 
persevere. Because we know how.
Anarchs
On the surface, the Brujah seem to have much 
in common with the anarchs. As is always the case, 


Clanbook: Brujah
60
the relationship is significantly more complex than 
it seems.
The first step in understanding the situation is 
understanding the anarchs. Look at their composi-
tion: many Caitiff, some Brujah, a few Gangrel and 
Malkavians, and a loose handful of the other clans, 
most of whom are in it more for greed than idealism. 
The Brujah are probably the second-largest contribu-
tors to the Caitiff population (behind the Gangrel), 
which makes the Brujah demographic among the 
anarchs even larger.
Where relations begin to fray is, surprisingly, in 
politics. Fundamental to the anarch cause is a reduc-
tion or abolishment of the powers of elders and princes 
and their ilk. Anarchs want an equal distribution of 
available resources and a diminishment of deference 
to the elders.
But the Brujah, as members of the Camarilla, 
uphold the sect’s general principles to one degree or 
another. I’m not saying that every Brujah neonate 
is fully behind the Tremere elder’s dominance of 
the police department. What I am saying is that 
not every Brujah — few of them, as a matter of 
fact — want the anarch’s egalitarianism. Like most 
Kindred, Brujah are often vain, selfish creatures. 
Why the hell would a Brujah want to share the 
profits of his citywide heroin distribution network 
with you? What right do you have to share that 
influence? Wouldn’t it be better for him if he took 
you out of the picture?
To the anarch mindset, the Brujah have sold out. 
The Rabble consider themselves rebels, but they’re 
buying into the power structure against which they 
claim to revolt. To the Brujah, the anarchs want too 
much too quickly. They understand that to affect 
change, you have to institute it slowly so as not to 
lose support for the changes due to fear of radicalism. 
The upshot is a great deal of mutual resentment. The 
anarchs, disaffected and frustrated, can’t rely on the 
Brujah; the Brujah acknowledge the need for struc-
ture and would see change through to fruition than 
wage a futile war that would only see them dismissed 
as maniacs.
This isn’t to say that some bleedover doesn’t oc-
cur. Particularly among the young Brujah, the anarch 
cause is quite popular. I bet that most Brujah flirt with 
it for some period of their unlife before moving on to 
a more realistic political outlook. For the most part, 
though, the common assumption is incorrect. The 
reality of the matter is that the Brujah effect change 
from within the game. The anarchs want to play a 
different game from the outset.
The Others
We Brujah are a cosmopolitan lot. Many of us 
travel and it’s almost second nature to us to maintain 
vast networks of informants, allies and associates. 
This social aspect brings us into contact with many 
different individuals, some of whom are fellow super-
natural denizens of the night. While only the most 
well-traveled of Kindred could possibly hope to have 
met one of every strange creature that wanders the 
shadows, the average Brujah is more likely to have 
come in contact with “others” than some of the more 
insular clans. In short, Brujah know people, some of 
whom are more than they seem.
Assamites
Over the several decades I’ve spent studying 
the Kindred, I’ve noticed that a frightening number 
of historical anecdotes lead back to the Assamites. 
Our revered Carthage had no shortage of Assassins; 
I suspect that they may have even been the second 
most numerous clan therein (which discussions with 
Critias support to some degree). I’ve also found a few 
odd connections between the Brujah and an obscure 
bloodline of Assamites called the Baali. It seems that 
back in Carthage, Baali Assamites had some kind of 
conflict with the parent clan — over religion, if my 
interpretation is correct. Carthage, of course, lay on 
the northern coast of Africa and was a mercantile 
port city. Assamites and Brujah revered the same 
gods (and, presumably, impersonated them) in that 
city — and in many of the other cities around the 
Middle East, the cradle of civilization and anywhere 
anyone ever dreamed of having his sire killed.
The long and short of it is this: The Assamites are 
old, and one’s always involved if you trace the roots 
back far enough. Respect them, even if their new 
direction scares you. They’re doing it for a reason.
Gangrel
I’m always amazed that when things become 
violent, the other Kindred turn to us to do a little 
knuckle dusting. Have you ever seen a Gangrel fight? 
I mean, Jesus. We may be able to hit people fast and 
hard, but when a Gangrel gets pissed at you, you’re 
lucky to be anything more than a bloody streak. 
Even if you manage to hit them, most of the time 
they just don’t care. They’re too damn tough, even 
if you manage to land a punch before they sever 
your arm and drink your blood from it. Anyone who 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
61
voluntarily makes her haven in Lupine territory is 
either a psychotic or a badass, maybe a little of both.
The thing is, Gangrel generally want to be left 
alone, at least from what I can tell. I know one Gangrel 
who dwells outside of Atlanta, and he says that this 
attitude was behind their mass migration from the 
Camarilla. They seem to have a loose tribal structure 
and one of their chieftain-types decided that it was 
better for the clan to collectively mind its own business 
than it was to keep its tenuous relationship with the 
Camarilla. Coincidentally, I know a few Brujah who 
sympathize with them — some of them went indie 
with the Gangrel and a few others think the Brujah 
should secede, too. The Gangrel have some kind of 
brothers-in-arms code of conduct, or maybe they just 
respect hardiness in other people. Whatever the case, 
they don’t seem to put much stock in the concept of 
clans and as long as you don’t bother them too much, 
they don’t care what your politics are.
Once I stayed with a pack of anarchs just south of 
San Francisco and they swore up and down that the 
Gangrel were friendly with the Lupines and had some 
sort of eco-terrorist agenda. To be honest, I haven’t 
seen this, but it might be easily misconstrued — maybe 
they ran into a rogue chapter of the clan, or maybe it 
was one specific brood. Whatever the case, the Gan-
grel don’t seem to be communing with nature in the 
hug-a-tree sense. They remind me more of animals 
who are part of nature, not necessarily “at home” in 
the environment, but certainly able to make the best 
of it. Critias suggests a similar point of view — that 
the Gangrel are more like feral forces of nature than 
any individual who just likes the wilderness. What-
ever the case, they’re vampires like the old legends 
suggest, turning into mist, calling upon the animals 
and refusing to die.
Giovanni
Here in the New World, Brujah and Giovanni 
don’t often cross paths. As far as most of the Brujah 
I’ve spoken with are concerned, the Giovanni are little 
more than a Ventrue offshoot with a predilection for 
necrophilia. In the Old World, however, particularly 
in Italy, Brujah and Giovanni have a little more con-
tact with each other. Although they’re not necessarily 
chummy, European Brujah and Giovanni often have 
several enemies in common. The Giovanni operate 
outside the traditional power structure — they’re not 
part of the Camarilla and don’t have to answer to it. 
As such, they often run afoul of Ventrue and Toreador 
Kindred who assume that because the Giovanni aren’t 
part of their sect, they aren’t relevant. All too often, 
an enterprising Ventrue may uncover a rival Giovanni 
in his domain (or vice versa). Now, the Brujah aren’t 
necessarily predisposed toward the Giovanni, but 
they’re a damn sight less hostile to them than they are 
to the average Ventrue. It wouldn’t be the first time 
that a Brujah made some strange bedfellows simply 
out of spite.
Still, the Giovanni probably grew out of medieval 
or Renaissance merchant classes, which puts them in 
the business end of things. In these modern nights, 
all it takes for some Brujah to peg you as The Man 
is a suit that makes you look presentable. As such, 
most Brujah have at best a neutral regard for the 
Giovanni. Those of us who see past the dime-store 
resentment may actually profit from relationships 
with the Necromancers, assuming the Giovanni are 
interested. They turn up in the Mafia at times, as 
well as in certain enclaves related to the Church, 
to which we Brujah are no strangers. Some Brujah 
gang leaders arm themselves with Giovanni-smuggled 
guns or move Giovanni-smuggled drugs. In the end, 
the relationship is whatever the Kindred involved 
can make it.
While it may be true that Brujah have a penchant 
for violence, I think it’s safe to say that few of us 
are morbid. We have little taste for the Giovanni’s 
habits — we prefer the dead remain dead. Not that 
this is any universal blanket statement; if the odd 
Brujah doesn’t mind the proximity of corpses and 
voodoo, that’s her business, but the concept of deal-
ing with the dead is generally as taboo to us as it is 
to other people.
Lasombra
The Lasombra are the leaders of the Sabbat. 
Most Brujah who have spent more than a few nights 
among the undead grow to hate the Sabbat — even 
if we’re not particularly happy with the stagnant 
Camarilla, few of us are exceptionally interested in 
taking some Satanic joyride into the mouth of Hell 
and calling it “freedom.” Put two and two together, 
and you’ll come to the conclusion that Clan Brujah 
has no particular love for the Lasombra.
I’m given to understand that in centuries past, 
the Brujah and Lasombra shared some common 
ground, particularly around the Iberian peninsula. 
When the Anarch Revolt took place, though, the 
Brujah had the sense to, ahem, see the error of our 
ways and rejoin the fold. The only Kindred with 
more pride than a Brujah is a Lasombra, however, 
so they chose to stick it out and call the antitribu 


Clanbook: Brujah
62
to their banner. This causes more of our disfavor 
for them — they’re as wed to power structures as 
the Ventrue, which automatically makes them the 
enemy for many Brujah.
Malkavians
Here’s a clan that generally splits you down the 
middle. Like the Brujah, the Malkavians do what 
they want. Unlike the Brujah, most Malkavians 
are worthless. They make a big show about, oh, the 
wretched affliction that maddens them, and lo, can’t 
we see the gilded reaper poised inside our dreams to 
crack the foundation of the race of Caine!
Some of them have the much-vaunted “insight” 
that they purport makes it worthwhile to weather their 
presence, but I’ll be damned if half of it isn’t an act.
When I made my haven outside Seattle, the 
prince didn’t allow a Malkavian candidate among the 
primogen. As a result, the city wasn’t too hospitable 
to Malkavians, so only three made their permanent 
havens there. The prince had his hands full with the 
depredations of a vampire no one knew anything 
about — Kindred were turning up dead, or running 
into the sun to meet their maker, or devouring their 
ghouls before wassailing down the streets, thirsting 
for the blood of vagrants. 
When things start getting unpredictably weird, 
fingers naturally point to the Lunatics. In this case, 
though, the Malkavians weren’t acting any different 
from how they normally did; they were unaffected 
by whatever tide of madness had swept the city. By 
reading her dreams and divining from trickles of blood 
dropped into cold water, one of the local Malkavians 
triangulated the location where this dangerous Kin-
dred made his haven. As it turns out, the Kindred 
in question was a member of the Inconnu who had 
been apart from other Kindred so long that he had 
become deranged, and his insanity washed over the 
city’s Cainites — he was a plague dog of lunacy. So 
some Malkavians have their uses.
Then again, of the other two Malkavians in Se-
attle at the time, one was convinced that the brain 
of his sire had invaded his body and the other would 
slit the throat of any woman who gave birth to a girl 
on Monday because that’s when a prophecy had told 
her the Antichrist would be born.
Nosferatu
You have to have some degree of pity for these 
monsters because of what the Embrace does to them. 
Be careful, though, because their wretched physical 
state turns many of them into utter assholes who some-
how believe that they have a right to be obnoxious.
The Nosferatu know everything. Nothing surpris-
ing there. The only problem I have with them is that 
their information is useless unless somebody knows 
it — so they have this unpleasant tendency of lord-
ing their vast knowledge over you in the hopes that 
you’ll do them a favor and buy it off them. That’s 
the secret to dealing with the Nosferatu and coming 
out on top: Let them know that without someone to 
make their precious little secrets valuable, they could 
have the combination to every safe at Fort Knox and 
it wouldn’t matter.
That said, they certainly make better compatriots 
than enemies because, in Kindred society, somebody 
always wants that little scrap of information and you’re 
better off if the secret has nothing to do with you.
Ironically, many of these Kindred also have similar 
inclinations toward compassion as we do. The only 
difference is that they feel it because they’ve lost the 
ability to interact with humankind, while we still look 
in from the outside. It’s the ultimate price, inflicted 
by denial.
Ravnos
The Deceivers aren’t usually as bad as the Pow-
ers That Be would have you believe, but you can be 
sure that you’re never going to get more out of one 
than she wants you to. If you’re after information, 
half of what she tells you is going to be a lie, probably 
intended to get you killed if you let anyone know you 
spoke with her. If you’re doing business together, she’s 
selling your share to the highest bidder on the side 
and then withdrawing all the money before showing 
you the books that say you’re bankrupt.
For lack of anything less euphemistic to say, I’ll 
grant that they’re clever. When you work with them, 
you’re dealing with the devil, and no one is better 
at manipulating the emotions than a Ravnos with a 
purpose. Recently, it seems, the clan has had its own 
civil war, and they’re not above playing the oppressed 
refugee shtick to bilk you out of something.
The thing is, their treachery is more than it seems 
— they have a genuinely nasty edge that’s going to 
cut you if you run across them. The best advice is to 
steer clear, and don’t upset them or give them any 
reason to take notice of you. Invariably, you’ll get 
the worst end of the deal, because they’re that good 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
63
at taking what they want and leaving you to bear 
the responsibility.
Setites
I feel similarly about the Setites as I do about the 
Assamites, albeit with a bit more reservation. Trace 
any Kindred treachery back far enough and there’s 
a Setite in there somewhere. Like the Assamites, 
they’re in the Jyhad for something that suits them 
and them only. Unlike the Assamites, they’re willing 
to let you in on the secret — for a price.
As any Brujah dopeman knows, you don’t snort 
your own stash. When you’re around a vice all the 
time, you succumb to it. So it is with the Setites. 
While they may have something that you want at 
first — drugs, a long-lost memoir that lists the sleep-
ing place of some powerful and vulnerable Kindred, 
the key to a mortal paramour’s heart — the price 
always proves exacting. Additionally, that price is 
contrived to keep bringing you back to the Setite, 
because their trade isn’t the merchandise or secrets 
they sell. It’s the people who owe them.
The trouble is, it’s hard to pass them up, and 
they’re well aware of that fact. Sure, you could spend 
a decade digging up information about the Heart’s 
Blood of Mithras and spend another five years outwit-
ting the traps and rivals who would beset you if you 
pursued it, or you could just buy a vial of Mithras’s 
Heart’s Blood from a Setite and be done with it. 
And they’re not proud — they gladly deal with the 
wants of people who aren’t after such lofty things 
as Methuselah blood, which means they cross paths 
with many of the Brujah on the streets. They peddle 
drugs, hookers, black-market contraband, favors from 
senators, whatever. Accept them as a necessary evil, 
shut them down when you can, and otherwise stay 
the fuck away from them.
Toreador
A classic chicken-or-the-egg scenario — have 
the Brujah always hated the Toreador because the 
Toreador have always hated the Brujah, or is it the 
other way around?
As a group, they’re deplorable. As individuals, 
most of them are still deplorable.
But every now and then you run across a Toreador 
who doesn’t buy into the bullshit that keeps so many 
of them going. In fact, most of them are as cunning as 
Brujah — they have an elaborately constructed ste-
reotypical façade that leads many Kindred to discount 
them automatically. It’s true that most Brujah have 
the physical advantage over the Toreador, but that’s 
not going to help them for long. Sure, they may be 
able to stomp a Toreador once, but you can bet that 
Toreador has some connection in the Kindred favor 
network that’s going to end up calling a blood hunt 
on the Brujah.
No, the best way to deal with Toreador is either 
to flatter them to the point of stupefied mollification 
or bring them a Trojan Horse by way of an “alliance” 
if you can’t ignore them altogether. Seriously, leave 
yourself an exit strategy when you find yourself deal-
ing with a Toreador, because most won’t hesitate to 
drag you down in their place when it all goes to hell. 
Contrary to their public personae, their shit does 
stink, and you’re liable to make more enemies among 
them by screwing one over, unless they think you did 
a good job of it.
Tremere
The Tremere come in two flavors: very breakable 
and ungodly powerful. Be careful when you break one 
of the fragile ones, because he might be one of the 
powerful ones’ bitches.
They’re forever scuttling around on some secret 
mission to find the skulls of their elders and grind them 
into aphrodisiac powder or something. They get all 
uppity when you interrupt them.
Whatever, Gandalf.
Tzimisce
I don’t know much about these freaks, but I 
have a theory. Whoever made the Tremere made 
the Tzimisce first as a sort of trial run, and Jesus, did 
he ever fuck up. Not only do they thrive on hurting 
people — and I’m not talking about Brujah-style 
punching you till you give up, I mean stuff like fang 
extractions and external genitalia relocation — but 
they actually wallow in it. The Sabbat deserves them 
and vice versa.
I feel like I should say more about them, but I 
don’t really want to. Let’s change the subject, because 
they make me nauseous.
Ventrue
All right. Now I’m supposed to have fits and jump 
around and scream and shake my fist. Damn those 
Ventrue! Down with princes! Kill whitey!
Well, I’m afraid I’m going to have to disappoint 
you. I wasn’t around for Carthage, version one. I don’t 
think it’s possible, given the current state of Kindred 
affairs, for Carthage, version two, and I don’t think 
anyone who we expected to actually dwell in that city 
would be too happy with it, as it couldn’t possibly 
be both modern and satisfactory to the undead. So I 
don’t harbor any grudge over that.


Clanbook: Brujah
64
No, by all accounts, the Ventrue are utterly 
placid. They’re decent enough leaders of the Ca-
marilla, in that they’re no more corrupt than your 
average middle manager and we don’t have too 
many interests that coincide, so we never have 
to see each other if we don’t want to. While the 
Ventrue are happy to place themselves at the 
head of the line and in the path of incoming fire, 
everyone else who’s a part of the organization can 
pretty much do what they want and let the Blue 
Bloods shuffle the papers.
If you ask me, I think that’s what lies at 
the core of Ventrue-Brujah hostility. It’s not 
so much that the Ventrue represent authority. 
No, I think that the Ventrue are complacent. 
They’re the status quo. If you have a Ventrue 
dissatisfied, it’s because he wants more, not differ-
ent. While the Brujah are committed to change 
and rebuilding, the Ventrue are committed to 
keeping things the same and growing wealthy 
from it. Building their empires upon the backs 
of those who make the empire possible is what 
irks the Brujah about the Ventrue, not 
the simple quality of unlife.
But then, I’ve thought about 
this more than your average Brujah, 
and it’s been my privilege to watch 
undead society for a century. If 
you want blind, screeching, 
fist-shaking anti-Ventruism, 
I’m sure many Brujah would 
be happy to oblige.
The Camarilla
No better, no worse, 
than it ever pretended 
to be. The benefit of the 
Camarilla over the Sab-
bat is that the former 
knows that it must change to 
remain viable. Well, that and the 
fact that you don’t have to drink 
the blood of every Kindred who 
looks in your direction or sell your 
soul to the devil.
Seriously, the Camarilla has its 
fair share of problems, most of which 
I chalk up to the inherent differences 
between elders and neonates (and ancillae, but 
I consider that more of a transitional stage between 


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
65
the two). Neonates, by their very nature, are new to 
the entire experience of being Kindred. Elders, by 
virtue of having been around forever and a night, 
know the state of vampirism in and out. However, 
the neonates are far more in touch with the current 
state of the world, while the elders have been placed 
out of time for so long that very few of them relate at 
all to the environment around them. It’s the classic 
example of having one’s cake and eating it, too, if 
you’ll pardon the entirely un-vampiric metaphor.
You can see these distinctions. Some elders are 
so staid that they still wear the clothes of the times 
in which they were Embraced, and then they can’t 
understand why the tactics they used hundreds of 
years ago are no longer efficacious. Neonates have 
every available modern advantage, but they still 
don’t understand the gravity of the Blood, or the 
predilections it indelibly imposes upon someone 
once they receive the Embrace. Elders haven’t been 
“human” for so long that they don’t respond to the 
world like humans — to some elders, it’s a perfectly 
acceptable course of action to behead one’s enemy 
and place his remains on a pike in their front yard. 
Neonates know that this sort of thing gets one ar-
rested instead of respected, but their influence over 
the world is too negligible to allow them to challenge 
the elders’ power.
It sounds like an endless, vicious cycle, doesn’t 
it? That’s because it is. However, it’s a vicious cycle 
that, on the whole, works better than anything 
else we’ve come up with. Now, before you claim 
that accepting it because it works well enough is 
contrary to my Brujah nature, let me quantify. The 
Camarilla, if it wants to survive, has to reach some 
equilibrium. It needs to evolve past its formal rules, 
much like Marxism intended to. The system itself 
should grow to be ingrained in the nature of the 
Kindred. Thus, we would be able to eliminate the 
titles, positions and responsibilities and get back to 
the finer points of unlife.
Obviously, the Camarilla has to make significant 
changes before it makes the Brujah happy with it, 
but we’re not the only ones it’s got to appease. I’ve 
said it before — it’s the lesser of the evils open to 
us, and not much more.
The Sabbat
This group of maniacs earns my vote for the worst 
idea ever. Over the years, I’ve learned no small amount 
about their politics, rituals and practices, and it still 
floors me that anyone ever managed to get a group 
like this to work, however erratically.
In a nutshell, Sabbat philosophy is built around 
an unceasing holy war against creatures that don’t 
exist, which somehow asserts their superiority 
over mortals.
Doesn’t make much sense to me, either.
Some people seem to think that Sabbat ideology 
fits the Brujah unlifestyle. I won’t argue with that. We 
Brujah are not stupid, however, and being told what 
to do with a backhanded reference to it as freedom 
strikes us as fundamentally flawed. The Brujah don’t 
want to be part of the Sabbat — the Camarilla works 
for us because it generally allows us to do what we 
will with unlife. Were we to join the Sabbat, we’d 
have to follow their party line because that’s all there 
is to them. And have I mentioned how misguided it 
is? Add to this the juvenile veneration of taboo, and 
you lose us completely.
No, we know that the best way to deal with an 
idiot is to let him dig his own grave.
The Inconnu
I’m not sure there really is an Inconnu, or if it’s 
one of those elder stories told to keep childer in line. 
Not that they’re made out to be ravening monsters, 
like the Sabbat — they’re more of a boojum used to 
spook the intellectual neonates. You know, “Better 
behave or the incomprehensible elders from the Old 
World will carry out some hidden plot with you as the 
Manchurian Candidate!”
Until I’ve met one, I’ll reserve a more constructive 
comment. And I don’t know anyone who’s met one.
And Whatever Else You Can Name
Werewolves. Witches. Ghosts. Angels. Devils. 
Aliens. All of this may or may not exist, but to be 
frank, it doesn’t concern us. Let the Gangrel chase 
the Lupines out of their havens and let the Tremere 
trade grimoires with the wizards under the light of 
a harvest moon. Brujah don’t deal with those sorts 
of things except on rare occasions, and I’m smart 
enough not to let those few occasions form a cohesive 
opinion for me. In my experience the best tactic is to 
leave well enough alone. If that doesn’t work, start 
swinging. If you can’t beat it that way, run like hell 
and know that at least you’ll be around longer than 
any of these other freaks. The Curse of Caine has its 
benefits, after all.
Horace Kaplan


Clanbook: Brujah
66
Burning Wrath  
(Celerity •••, Potence •••)
This power’s origin is lost to the Brujah, though many of its more combative members have learned the 
secret. Indeed, its use is very widespread, particularly among the less genteel ranks of the clan.
When the Brujah activates this power, she becomes capable of striking an enemy with devastating power 
many times in succession — each punch or kick actually impacts the foe multiple times, all of which carry 
the full force of the Brujah’s supernatural strength.
The blood used during this power’s activation also causes the Kindred’s flesh to blush a violent crimson. 
In some cases, visible waves of blood-heat emanate from her body or a red mist envelops her.
System: The player spends one Blood Point for each use of Burning Wrath, whether or not the character 
actually hits the target. On the Kindred’s next attack, all brawling damage she does is aggravated, including 
damage done through the extra successes imparted by her Potence.
Burning Wrath may even be used multiple times in a single turn, on split actions or Celerity actions, 
so long as the player spends the requisite Blood Point for each attack.
MET System: The player spends one Blood Trait for each use of Burning Wrath, whether or not the 
attack is successful — the usage must be declared before determining the challenge’s outcome. Successful 
attacks inflict the full amount of damage as aggravated.
It costs 15 experience points to learn this power. In MET, this power costs eight Experience Traits.
Iron Heart (Potence •••, Presence •••)
Some Brujah can steel themselves against even the most forceful extensions of other Kindred’s will. By 
calling upon their physical strength and what some vampires suspect is sheer id, the Brujah can shrug off the 
effects of mental suggestion and supernatural force of personality. Young Kindred tell tales of bold Brujah 
even ignoring the attempts of princes to Dominate them — likely a use of this power.
System: Increase the difficulty by two for Kindred wishing to employ Dominate, Presence or mind-
controlling powers of Thaumaturgy against a Brujah with this power. Also, a Kindred may use Iron Heart 
to strengthen the will of another: The player spends one Willpower point, and the subject of his choice 
becomes harder to affect, adding one to the difficulties of Dominate, Presence and Thaumaturgical mind 
control attempts for the remainder of the scene.
MET System: A Kindred with this power wins on ties to resist any attempt to use Dominate, Presence or 
Thaumaturgical mind control against him. Also, the Kindred may use this power to strengthen the will of another: 
The player spends one Willpower Trait and the subject of his choice gains an automatic retest to resist any attempts 
to use above mentioned powers. This lasts for the remainder of the scene, or one hour, whichever comes first.
This power costs 18 experience points. In MET, this power costs nine Experience Traits.
Pulse of Undeath (Auspex •, Potence •••)
By focusing her heightened awareness and physical prowess, a Kindred can “feel” for which of the physical 
gifts of Caine another Kindred may have learned. Potence manifests as a vibration of the muscles, Fortitude 
generates a cold rigidity in the body and Celerity causes a brief feeling of vertigo.
System: This power enables a character to know which, if any, of the three physical Disciplines (Ce-
lerity, Fortitude, Potence) another character possesses and at what level. The player rolls Perception + 
Empathy (difficulty 6). Each success indicates that the character learns the nature and level of one of the 
other character’s physical Disciplines.
In some cases, particularly if the subject has a higher rating in a given Discipline than the character using 
this power, the results may be imprecise. A character may feel the telltale dizziness that indicates Celerity, 
but might well be unsure of the subject’s potential with it.
MET System: To learn which of the three physical Disciplines another character possesses, the player 
must succeed in a static mental challenge against the target character’s Mental Traits. If she succeeds, she 
may spend one Mental Trait per Discipline to learn what level the target has of each.
It costs six experience points to learn this power. In MET, this power costs three Experience Traits.


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
67
Character and 
Traits
The Kindred of Clan Brujah are a diverse group, 
differing at times as much from each other as they do 
from vampires of other clans. As such, a few unique 
Traits have arisen that are especially appropriate to 
members of this clan. Storytellers take note: While 
these new Traits are not necessarily exclusive to the 
Brujah, all of them are options. They may be used by 
Kindred of other clans, or not at all, at your discretion.
Sections that make mention of MET are for 
use with White Wolf’s Mind’s Eye Theatre live-
action rules.
Considerations for 
Existing Traits
In some cases, the Storyteller may wish to make 
a few adjustments or special allowances for Brujah 
characters whose concept deserves it. As always, the 
Storyteller is the final arbiter of such situations.
Alternate Identity Background
Because much of a Brujah’s reputation depends 
on her deeds, misdeeds, infamy and valor, some Bru-
jah choose to go by different names when they meet 
different Kindred. The anarch icon, Smiling Jack, 
for example (see Chapter Three), has concocted 
numerous aliases to hide his identity when it might 
not be prudent to be known as a rabid opponent 
of the princedom. Although it is presented in the 
Guide to the Sabbat, Alternate Identity is certainly 
a valid Background for any Kindred whose name 
might otherwise earn her unwanted attention, posi-
tive or  negative.
Military Force Background
Elders aren’t the only Kindred with devoted sol-
diers at their beck and call. The Brujah, given their 
connections to the mortal world and their skill with 
the Presence Discipline, sometimes cultivate groups of 
followers that either exceed the quantities suggested by 
the Allies and Retainers Backgrounds or are populated 
by people who have less versatility than normal Allies 
or Retainers. Among these are the Brujah gang lords, 
capos, religious faction leaders, political jackbooters, 
entourage-bearing glitterati, activists and, well, anyone 
who can convince a group of chain-swinging hooli-
gans to fight whomever he tells them to. In cases like 
this, Storytellers may wish to allow the character to 
invest a point or two in Military Force, to represent 
the group. Remember that Military Force is not nec-
essarily a collection of doting sycophants who follow 
the character’s orders at the drop of a hat — Military 
Force consists, obviously, of people who fight for the 
character. Sycophants, yes-men and lieutenants are best 
covered by an additional investment in the Retainers 
or Allies Backgrounds.
The Military Force Background appears in the 
Vampire Storytellers Handbook.
New Discipline Powers
The following powers are all manifestations of 
the personal nature of Disciplines as a Kindred’s 
mastery rises to the sixth level or greater. Characters 
with the ability to learn and create new Disciplines 
might wish to acquire these or use them as a base 
from which to explore their own options. Likewise, 
certain Storyteller characters may have access to 
these powers.
The Gentle Rebuke  
(Potence Level Six)
Facetiously named, this power allows the Kin-
dred to physically knock another character away 
from herself with the slightest of touches. Although 
this power does no damage in and of itself, is use is 
quite humbling, and certainly, to be hurled away 
from an elder in a social setting has its embar-
rassing repercussions. Some Kindred who use this 
power do so surreptitiously, touching their victims 
and sending them reeling across the room. Others 
use this power as a not-so-subtle display of their 
might, giving their victim a casual slap that has 
overwhelming results.
System: The player spends a Blood Point and the 
character must physically touch her target (which may 
require a Dexterity + Brawl roll in certain situations). 
The character on the receiving end of this power is 
immediately thrown a number of yards equal to the 
invoking character’s Potence rating. The results of 
this vary by situation, and are left to the Storyteller 
— a character hurled into a wall may well sustain 
damage, while a character tossed haphazardly away 
might have to succeed on a Dexterity roll (difficulty 
6) to remain standing.
MET System: The player spends a Blood Trait 
and must succeed in a physical challenge to touch 
the target (this may be done surreptitiously, but 
the player may not make use of other Potence ben-
efits). The challenge is not required if the subject 
allows the player to touch him (a handshake, a 
“friendly” hand on the shoulder, etc). This power 


Clanbook: Brujah
68
hurls the victim 20 feet directly away from the 
invoking character. If the subject strikes a wall or 
other solid obstacle, he suffers two health levels of 
bashing damage. Otherwise, the character needs to 
win a static physical challenge against six Traits 
to remain standing.
Relentless Pursuit (Potence Level Six)
With this power, the Kindred becomes capable of 
truly impressive physical displays. He may leap from 
rooftop to rooftop over entire streets, jump to a fire 
escape a dozen feet over his head and other feats of 
athleticism. This is useful both for pursuit and eva-
sion, but is quite a breach of the Masquerade, should 
anyone see this power in use.
System: Characters without this power may leap 
a distance of two vertical feet or four horizontal feet 
per success on a Strength or Strength + Athletics roll 
(difficulty 3; see Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 202). 
With this power, the character can jump four feet 
vertically or six feet horizontally per dot of Potence 
he possesses, needing only to succeed on a Dexterity 
+ Athletics roll (difficulty 4) to land correctly. If this 
last roll fails, circumstances dictate the results — the 
character may overshoot a building ledge or simply 
land less than gracefully.
MET System: The player may use this power 
to allow her character to leap up to 25 feet verti-
cally or 40 feet horizontally. She must succeed in a 
static physical challenge against four Traits (retest 
with Athletics) to land correctly — if she fails the 
challenge, the Storyteller should assess results as 
appropriate.
Stutter-Step (Celerity Level Seven)
Calling upon her preternatural speed, a Kindred 
using this power appears to undertake several actions 
at once, “flickering” from one action to the next. 
This is particularly useful in combat, as one’s foe 
cannot guess which of the actions he perceives is 
the one with which the character follows through. 
The character seems to be a dervish while this power 
is in effect, beginning countless feints, dodges and 
parries.
System: The player spends a Blood Point to 
activate this power. For the turn in which the 
character calls upon this power, she may add her 
full Celerity rating to her Dodge, Block or Parry 
pool. This pool may be also be distributed among 
multiple actions — a character with this power can 
use it in a succession of Dodges, moving too fast for 
the eye to perceive, much like the fluttering of a 
hummingbird’s wings.
MET System: The player spends a Blood Trait to 
activate this power. For the turn in which the charac-
ter calls upon this power, she may use six additional 
Physical Traits (Graceful x 2, Nimble x 2, Quick x 
2) for the purposes of defense. These bonus traits do 
not apply to the character’s attacks. She also gains 
a single “Stutter” retest in any challenge, applicable 
for defensive actions. The “Stutter” retest is always 
the last retest declared in a challenge, unless the at-
tacker declares the use of Might.
New Merits and Flaws
Like all Merits and Flaws, these Traits are optional, 
pending Storyteller approval. For more details on the 
Merits and Flaws, see Vampire: The Masquerade, 
pp. 295-296.
Compassionate (4-pt. Mental Merit)
You have the moral character of the Brujah of 
old, the proud warrior-poets who did what they did 
because their hearts called to them. If you ever fail 
a Conscience (but not Conviction) roll, you may 
spend a point of Willpower and attempt the roll 
again, at a difficulty of 1 higher than the last. If you 
succeed on this roll, it counts as if you succeeded on 
the first. You may do this only once per Conscience 
roll; you must accept the results of the re-roll. If you 
botch this second roll, you lose one permanent point 
of Willpower in addition to any consequences of the 
failed Conscience roll.
In MET, the player must spend one Willpower 
Trait to attempt a retest, which is treated as if it were 
one level higher on the Hierarchy of Sins. The player 
must accept the results of the second test.
Dynamic Personality  
(5-pt. Social Merit)
People are drawn to you, due to some character-
istic appeal you exude. You may purchase additional 
Backgrounds using your experience points at the end 
of each story — two experience points earn you one 
Background dot from the following group: Allies, 
Contacts, Herd, Retainers.
In MET, this Merit allows the player to purchase 
more Backgrounds with Experience Traits. When the 
player purchases Traits in Allies, Contacts, Herd or 
Retainers, he may gain two Background Traits per 
Experience Trait spent. Storytellers should watch 
this Merit carefully for potential abuse.


Chapter Two: Unlife Among the Brujah
69
Obvious Predator (2-pt. Social Flaw)
Either your face or your immediate disposition 
lets people know that you have nothing good in store 
for them. Mortals react poorly to people who exude 
such a blatant air of menace, and all your difficulties 
for Social rolls increase by two (with the exception 
of Intimidation-related rolls).
In MET, this is largely a matter of roleplaying. 
A player who chooses this Flaw must wear a card or 
other item that identifies him as an Obvious Predator. 
Kindred with this Flaw lose all ties in social challenges 
with mortals. Obvious Predator does not inflict a 
penalty upon Intimidation-related challenges.
Uncontrollable (5-pt. Mental Flaw)
Rage and passion constantly war in the soul of a 
volatile Brujah. Perhaps you were ill tempered before 
the Embrace, or perhaps your Brujah lineage awakened 
some latent fury. In any case, even more so than your 
clanmates, you are prone to frenzy. Difficulties to 
resist frenzy are always 10 for this character. Prepare 
for a short, hellish ride.
In MET, characters with this Flaw always lose on 
ties in attempts to resist frenzy. Uncontrollable can 
easily disrupt a LARP, and Storytellers are cautioned 
to carefully consider whether it’s be appropriate in 
their games.


Clanbook: Brujah
70


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
71
Chapter Three: 
The Rabble’s 
Ranks
”This isn’t really death,” Tyler says. “We’ll be legend. We won’t grow old.”
I tongue the barrel into my cheek and say, Tyler, you’re thinking of vampires
— Chuck Palahniuk, Fight Club
Of the Brujah as a whole, what can be said that 
several outstanding members of the clan do not im-
mediately contradict in thought or behavior? That 
they are passionate? Well, what about the ennui of the 
elders or the stagnation of those who have made things 
comfortable for themselves? Or are the Brujah rebel-
lious for its own sake? What then of the Brujah who 
take positions among the social elite of the Camarilla? 
Are they all mindless anarchs, plotting the overthrow 
of princes around the globe? How, then, to account for 
those (admittedly few) cities in which a Brujah claims 
the princedom? The Brujah are a clan of contradictions 
and hypocrisies, fierce pride and craven treachery. The 
only difference between a Brujah warlord and his vicious 
counterpart in the Sabbat may be a simple statement 
of allegiance.
That is the intrinsic horror of the Brujah clan — the 
endless rage against the known evil for the unknown 
that one feels is right, but cannot know for sure. The 
idyllic Carthage was also a bloody orgy and a crucible for 
infants, all in the name of vampire gods. Transylvania, 
where the night claims the innocent, was haven to the 
Brujah who fled the tyranny of the Roman Ventrue. 
Even the streets of the modern nights, where many 
young Brujah claim their domains, are pits of drugs, 
violence and utter desperation.
Brujah, then, are the Kindred who make their 
havens in the horror of the conscience. Let that  be 
their common thread.


Clanbook: Brujah
72
The Confederate
Quote: “Southern justice” is about to take on a new mean-
ing for you.
Prelude: Your interest in the plight of the American 
South began as it does for many people, as a result of school 
studies. Although you were born and raised in Virginia, your 
parents were neither overly political nor attached to one of 
the state’s “old money” families. Quite the contrary, they 
both found it odd that you became engrossed and increas-
ingly vocal about the “Lost Cause.”
By the time you had made a life for yourself, you had become 
a local expert and an acknowledged armchair historian of the 
American Civil War. Your sympathies lay with the Confederacy, 
and you published two books on the history and economics of 
the war in your spare time. A few 
colleges even invited you to speak 
in panels or debates, which was 
where you met the Kindred who 
became your sire. Like you, he 
was an eloquent, educated 
man, though you could tell 
that years on the intellectual 
circuit had left him more than 
a little bitter. Slowly, oblivi-
ously, you earned your sire’s 
trust and respect. He 
invited you to 
a quiet but 
important meeting of like-minded pro-Southerners, where you realized 
that, if organized, the South could rise again.
By the end of the meeting, your sire revealed to you what he and 
his companions were — Kindred. With the powers he possessed, he 
argued, and with the powers of the Blood, you could coordinate an 
effort that could right the wrongs the South had suffered under the 
Union. Thrilled with the opportunity, you accepted.
Since that time, you and your sire have grown apart. He 
didn’t mention the unpleasantness of being a vampire or the great 
costs it carried. Still, you accept your fate nobly. You have fought 
against the vampires of the Sabbat, which seems a bit ironic to 
you — you are fighting the vampires’ war of the sects simply to 
be able to one night fight a new war between the states. But 
your resolve is firm — your cause will prevail.
Concept: You count yourself among the idealist camp of Brujah, 
those who believe the clan can come together in order to advance 
a certain idea — yours, in this case. Your Confederate sympathies are 
based on economics and regional culture. You believe that the South 
should focus on an agricultural economic base and leave industrializa-
tion to the Yankees. Your Brujah nature lends the fire of passion to your 
arguments, though it is as often a detriment as it is a benefit.
Roleplaying Hints: Maintain as even a temper as possible — 
you know from experience that flailing fanatics rarely make the best 
case for their positions. You are rational and impassioned, and you rarely 
undertake an action without considering its outcome. Don’t proselytize; 
your case is subtle and not dependent upon converting people. 
Equipment: American SUV, professorial tweed-and-twills wardrobe, 
outdated laptop computer, American history journals


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
73


Clanbook: Brujah
74
The Harpy-to-Be
Quote: Let me be frank — if you ever expect the other 
Kindred to regard you as anything besides competition for sus-
tenance, you’d best learn a modicum of grace. And don’t even 
get me started on that jacket.…
Prelude: Life and unlife blurred into the same for you 
— you never really felt alive even in the days when you still 
breathed and ate and made love. You worked a nondescript 
job as an office manager and followed all the requisite fads: 
fitness, diet cola, designer 
clothes, wine and gour-
met ingredients. None 
of it fulfilled the basic 
emptiness that had 
become your daily 
routine. At times 
you were simply 
bored with life while 
at others it simply left 
you wanting… more.
That’s why your sire 
chose you for the 
Embrace. While 
you had come to 
characterize your-
self as another 
vacuous, empty 
youth, he could see your disappointment and thought that you would make an 
ideal addition to the ranks of the Kindred. You met him at a New Year’s party, 
kissed him at midnight and met the new year as a vampire, never looking 
back at what your life had been.
Becoming a vampire has been simultaneously the best and worst thing 
that has ever happened to you. Only now do you see the things you had 
taken for granted. On the other hand, you no longer have to worry about 
saying or doing “the right thing,” because of your force of personality. 
This has bred a cruelty in you, though, which you have secretly begun 
to fear — it has taken your death for you to truly feel alive, but now you 
miss what life had to offer.
Concept: You are the veriest Kindred socialite, attending prestigious 
parties and escorting Cainites and kine to whatever events you feel 
would benefit from your beauty and wit. Other young Kindred, though, 
do not have your refinement. They don’t understand that the world 
needs people like you to provide them with a glimpse of the wondrous. 
You’re such an important figure that you don’t even do anything: 
You’re the idle rich, making the most of your undead gifts.
Roleplaying Hints: Unlife is yours for the enjoy-
ment, and anyone who tries to say otherwise suffers 
the entirety of your derision. Others exist to serve your 
desires or sate your hunger. You can be cunning and cruel 
or tender and compassionate and everything in between but 
only at your whim. Completely emotional, you often find yourself in 
unpleasant situations of your own making, but isn’t that what unlife is for?
Equipment: German sedan on short lease, enormous designer wardrobe (up-
dated weekly), PCS phone, uptown condominium, high-yield mutual fund portfolio


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
75
The Paladin
Quote: See? That wasn’t so hard, was it? Now pick up 
your teeth and get the hell out of here.
Prelude: You were always tough — you played football 
in high school and college and kept in shape through 
municipal boxing after you graduated. The problem was 
that you didn’t know when to stop. You racked up six 
football injuries during your gridiron days and you found 
yourself suspended from the boxing league for excessive 
force. You couldn’t help it, though; pressure to succeed 
academically stressed you out during high school and 
college, while the nonstop trials of helping to manage a 
retail store put you on edge as an adult.
It was almost a relief when you found yourself abducted 
from a local nightclub and press-ganged into the service 
of the Sabbat, who wanted you to be as fierce and angry 
as you possibly could. While the pack’s insistence that you 
were fighting a holy war grew tedious after a while, the 
frequency with which they allowed you to “blow off steam” 
earned you quick recognition and respect. Before 
long, you had distinguished yourself enough for 
the bishop to make you a templar, which gave 
you great pride.
Still, you believe that you have left 
some degree of unfinished business 
in the world of the living. Being 
a Sabbat enforcer doesn’t mean 
you’re simply a conscienceless 
killer. Unlike most Sabbat, you 
haven’t completely written off 
your mortal family — you still 
send your mother and brother letters, 
describing your wonderful life and success at work. You don’t see this 
as a weakness; your mother didn’t raise her son to be a boor. 
Concept: Your life was a never-ending source of stress, but your 
newfound role in the Sabbat provides you with a release. Unlike most 
others in your position, you are not a sadist, though you fulfill your duties 
with zeal. For you, the sect is not so much a holy cause as it is a group that 
claims you, and you have no illusions about the real nature of the community 
it claims to be. The Sabbat is little more than a collection of self-interested 
individuals, and you have no problem going your own way in the sect.
Roleplaying Hints: You are at odds with your inherent clan passion. 
While the Brujah Embrace may incline you toward fervor, you feel your 
unlife is stagnating and that you have no real cause. After all, the sect’s 
propaganda doesn’t carry much weight with you; you’ve had to entertain 
yourself in the nights since your Embrace. Still, you feel some sense of 
achievement in your appointment to the position of paladin, and you’ve 
been trying more and more frequently to foment an interest in the Sab-
bat’s affairs. Beneath it all, however, you know it’s not genuine.
Equipment: Flashy convertible, extensive wardrobe of club clothes, 
brass knuckles, ax handle


Clanbook: Brujah
76


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
77
La Belle Dame Sans Merci
Quote: I don’t care what you want. You’re not my concern.
Prelude: Life in the barrio trained you to watch out for 
yourself at an early age, and being a young woman just made 
it more difficult. The gangs were only part of the problem 
— of more concern was the daily disorganized crime that 
threatened you at every turn. The neighborhood was full 
of heads, rapists, thieves and two-bit criminals who took 
advantage of any opportunity they saw. And they almost 
always saw it in the chicas who called the neighborhood home.
The church was your sanctuary, though: a place you 
escaped the evil of the world by looking to Christ. But faith 
wasn’t enough to protect you. After being raped 
by one of your brother’s cholo friends, you 
turned to the gangs for your own protec-
tion. You had to resort to that which you 
hated just to make life tolerable, and even 
that was a left-handed deal. You suffered 
through group sex with the gang’s male 
members and a tooth-jarring beatdown 
at the hands of its females before the 
locos considered you one of theirs.
Surprisingly, you took to 
the gang lifestyle with ease — it 
stirred something primal within 
you. It gave you power that 
you had never commanded 
before. Before long, you had 
more status in the gang than 
many of the guys and found 
yourself running several 
of the more profitable jobs. 
The money rolled in, the cops 
didn’t fuck with you, you had all 
the drugs and booze you wanted, 
and if anyone had a problem with 
you, your vatos hit them so hard they 
learned to never speak up again. 
Where was the catch?
Then that you were told it had 
all been a test. The gang’s leader 
called you in for a meeting and 
inducted you into a new gang: 
the Kindred. To this night, you 
don’t know whether it’s because 
you passed or failed.
Concept: Being a vampire 
in a gang means never being 
taken for granted. Of course, 
very few of the locos know you’re 
Kindred; to them it just seems 
that you’re damn good at what 
you do. Your sympathies 
tend to lie with the anarchs 
but you’re not about to do something 
stupid like renounce the Camarilla 
or join the Sabbat. Just like with the 
gangs, the Camarilla offers safety in 
numbers, and you don’t really take part 
in all their political bullshit anyway. The 
gang’s more a family to you, anyway, but 
that’s as it should be.
Roleplaying Hints: Your hot temper 
leads you into many acts of violence or 
indiscretion, but as you see it, that’s what 
vampires do. Your prime concerns are 
money, vitae and some small degree of 
physical comfort, but you lend your 
strength and connections to anyone 
you believe has a just cause, sort of like 
the folk heroes of your Latina upbringing. 
Other vampires are either tools to use 
or important people to know, but your 
sire has told you that there are some 
serious badass Kindred out there, 
for whom you should have fear and 
respect. Fuck that — in your eyes, 
everyone’s got to prove themselves 
or they’re no good to you.
Equipment: Lowered pickup, 
pair of unregistered revolvers, switch-
blade, two grand worth of Seconal


Clanbook: Brujah
78
The Anachronism
Quote: Let’s just say that in my day, we didn’t know what 
the president was up to in his private chambers, and we had the 
good sense not to care.
Prelude: The outlaws swept in like a raging fire across 
a plain and turned the town of Scofield upside-down. They 
roared in one night, shot the place full of holes, killed a trav-
eling marshal and burned down the Chinese laundry. The 
outlaws terrorized the place only at night; everyone assumed 
they were busy getting drunk during the day and came out 
only once they had become 
all whiskey-mean. But you 
found out the truth.
As a former 
cowboy and 
plainsman, you 
settled down in 
Scofield to open your 
own smithy and livery. 
The outlaws dragged you 
out of bed in the middle of 
the night to shoe their 
horses before they 
headed of 
down the 
coast and Embraced you by way of payment. They 
starved you for a few hours after the Embrace, though, and 
before they left they buried you in the churchyard, not really caring 
one way or the other if you managed to dig yourself up. And 
for the longest time, you didn’t. In the cold arms of torpor, you 
slept away the years in a state halfway between life and death.
But then you awoke. An indescribable dread shook you 
from your slumber and your erupted from the earth in a frenzy, 
slaking your hunger on a disbelieving police officer before 
finding out that almost 70 years had passed since your “untimely 
demise.” An industrious sort, you looked into the finer details of what 
you had become and learned that a nomadic pack of Sabbat had done 
the deed. According to a few of the local “anarchs,” the same pack still 
traveled up and down the coast. What a night it’ll be when you find them.
Concept: You had always been a firm believer in fate and God’s will. This 
may be strange, but it’s what He apparently wants for you — doing the Devil’s 
work. You know that your gripe doesn’t lie with this “Sabbat” thing, but 
rather with the Cainites who turned you. Since returning to the conscious 
world, you’ve found a pack with whom you can travel and you do what they 
ask you as long as you believe it might lead you closer to your missing sire.
Roleplaying Hints: Vengeance fuels you, and you’ve fully convinced 
yourself that when you find and destroy the Cainite who made you, you 
might well have to die to set things right. Still, you’ll cross that bridge when 
you come to it. In the meantime, you’d best get used to this modern world. 
Who’d have known things could have changed so drastically in just a 
few decades? It sure doesn’t help that you’re so easily frustrated and 
angered by all this technology now that you’re dead.…
Equipment: Weathered Wal-Mart “Western wear,” single-action 
revolver, lever-action rifle, ’81 Pontiac Firebird, ghouled mutt companion


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
79


Clanbook: Brujah
80
net.kindred
Quote: You wanna know what the prince’s venture-capital 
company made in profit last year? Hang on; I’ll grab their an-
nual report off their Web site. Oh, this is some pretty specialized 
stuff — I’m going to have to charge you a consultation fee.
Prelude: You had made a decent living, cashing in on 
the Internet revolution. After a small-business loan from 
the bank enabled you to start your own company, business 
boomed for a few years, as you had managed to ride the 
first wave of e-hysteria. Before long, however, the market 
matured and your services became less valuable. Your 
business had dwindled to a few contract jobs with larger 
solutions companies. The money came regularly, but only 
at the same time every 30 days, and you felt the squeeze.
Just as things started to look bleak, you 
met the strangest client who’d ever employed 
you. He said he was working on a Web 
project — and that he was looking to do 
something not entirely on the level. In-
trigued, you accepted the contract, which 
was a commercial Web site designed to 
process false orders through which the 
client intended to launder money. When 
the time came to accept payment for the 
project, the client stated that he wanted 
you to administrate the site full-time… 
and promptly Embraced you.
Luckily for you, 
most vampires, like 
most mortals, aren’t 
very smart when it 
comes to comput-
ers. The Internet 
is this nebulous 
thing that ex-
ists inside a 
magic box 
that sits 
on their 
d e s k , 
and only 
techno-
wizards like 
yourself can 
bend it to 
their wills. 
As such, you 
charge premi-
um rates for the 
Kindred, who 
couldn’t keep up 
with the technology even 
if they wanted to. Unless 
other people start Embrac-
ing Web jockeys, your unlife is going to be very lucrative. 
Of course, that’s the least you can ask. After all, you 
have no choice but to serve the Kindred now.
Concept: Your talents lie in very specific back-
office Web applications, like dynamic databases and 
user-defined content preference managers. Still, it 
helps to know most of the technical details. At 
least, you know them well enough to hide traces 
of your passing. Now, you pay the rent at your 
haven by skimming money the very investments 
you’ve been hired to protect. Morals aren’t your 
strong point — you’d rather spend the time “day” 
trading in foreign markets or developing custom 
apps to keep you ahead of the business curve.
Roleplaying Hints: It’s all about the bottom 
line. You’re better socialized than the stereotypi-
cal “computer geek,” but your passions still lie in 
the same subjects. To you, everyone is a potential 
employer or asset. They exist to validate you, 
whether by working for them or hacking them. 
You enjoy showing off; it’s your quiet revenge 
on a world that mocked you as a youth and now 
you’re flaunting your success in its face.
Equipment: Cheesy late-model American 
sports car, bleeding-edge laptop, wrinkly 
slacker clothes, PCS phone, two beepers, 
YakPak full of wires and program manuals


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
81
The Small-Town Sheriff
Quote: You want to do this the easy way or the hard way? 
I’m hopin’ you choose the hard way, myself.
Prelude: If it wasn’t one damn thing in your town, it was 
another. One month, you had all the niggers getting uppity 
and rioting off the access road. The next month it was all the 
pinkos and hippies from the university up the highway staging 
some kind of animal-rights protest at the cannery. Then some 
faggot march and, in the same month, the lynching after that 
child molester was acquitted. Yeah, every time some group or 
another got a wild hair up their ass, they took to the streets.
As the sheriff, however, you kept order, because that’s 
what the decent people of the town wanted. A little skull-
cracking went a long way when people knew they should 
fear you and if they didn’t, you and your deputies made 
things right for the decent people of the town.
Your fervor attracted the attention of one 
of these weird types — turns out 
she was a real-life vampire. 
She made you an of-
fer that sounded like 
business; she wanted 
you to work for some 
special-interest law 
enforcement arm in 
some city a few states 
away. It sounded like a good deal, until she made you a vampire. Now you’re work-
ing for some guy who calls himself the prince and busting heads when he snaps 
his fingers. It’s no big deal — most of this vampire order is basically made up 
of decent people, and you’re just whipping the shitheads into place. At 
least, that’s what you tell yourself when you rise each night.
Concept: Your dedication to the law (or to the Traditions, 
as is now the case) draws inspiration from two sources: your 
own desire for order and the thrill you get from exercising 
your power. Even though you don’t wear a badge anymore, 
you still have the prince backing you, so your word is still 
law. Unless the prince says otherwise, of course; you don’t 
always agree with how she interprets things. In your opinion, 
these vampire rules are too liberal and the whole lot of 
the Kindred could be improved with some organization. 
Of course, you’d need to be the one keeping the peace.…
Roleplaying Hints: You’re the sheriff now, just 
like in life, and people better give that title the respect 
it deserves. You lord your position over other Kindred, 
and you’re condescending and haughty to mortals. Still, 
your mouth don’t write checks your ass can’t cash, and 
anyone who calls your bluff ends up with knuckle dents in 
his head. At times, you abuse your power for perks or simple 
viciousness, but most of the time you uphold the prince’s poli-
cies to the letter. Without order, this whole Camarilla thing is 
going to fall down around everyone’s ears.
Equipment: Nightstick, police-auction highway patrol 
car with civilian paint job, pepper spray, S&W Model 29, 
Dickies wardrobe


Clanbook: Brujah
82


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
83
The Digital Musician
Quote: I don’t care what your politics are. I’m an entertainer. You 
want me to play a benefit, fine, but don’t drag me into your little war.
Prelude: When other kids wanted to be rock stars, they 
picked up guitars. That wasn’t the case with you, though. You 
were young enough to relate better to computers and satellite 
broadcasts than you were to the Rolling Stones. In fact, your musi-
cal heroes were anonymous, hiding behind banks of synthesizers 
when they played live and appearing nowhere at all on their CD 
liner notes. Beginning in junior high, you saved enough money 
to buy a synth and a drum machine. Even in high school, when 
the other kids were spending money 
on cars and clothes, you bought 
computers and sequencers.
By the time you were 17, 
you were playing clubs that 
legally you couldn’t even pa-
tronize. Still, no one asked you 
your age, thinking you were 
just another young-looking 
wunderkind. Your youth even 
surprised your sire the night he 
Embraced you — he told you that 
your music was the sound of restless 
rebellion. You didn’t care; you just 
liked making people dance.
After the Embrace, 
you’ve found yourself 
to be rather popular 
among the 
Kindred. 
A f t e r 
leaving 
home, 
you’ve 
p a i d 
y o u r 
rent by play-
ing Brujah raves, 
Toreador parties and 
the nightclub scene. 
Having left your mortal 
family behind, you travel 
the country as the flavor of the 
month, going where the work 
takes you. More than anything, 
you find yourself missing the 
old days as a mortal, which you 
think is a little strange. Perhaps 
it’s because you never had a 
chance to enjoy what life had 
to offer, or perhaps it’s because 
you just don’t feel what you used 
to. All you have left is music, and 
the never-ending thirst for blood. 
And in a few years, the music will 
be yesterday’s news.
Concept: You’re not too far re-
moved from the James Dean-style of 
rock ‘n’ roll rebel, differing only 
in the specifics of the music 
itself. You still maintain 
the accelerated, high-
energy unlifestyle of the 
music world. You don’t 
have much in com-
mon with the rebellious 
nature of your clanmates 
other than providing them with 
a soundtrack for it, but so what? Politics 
have always bored you; you’re happy playing 
the role of the darling for the time being.
Roleplaying Hints: Whatever you’re 
doing, you’re in it for the party first and 
the money second. It’s not that you don’t 
have the Brujah passion, you just find it in 
different things. Being introduced to the 
self-promoted celebrity world so young has 
taken its toll on you, and you are often 
terse, short and demanding with people, 
who often see you as a prima donna.
Equipment: Turntables, CD play-
ers, mixing boards, effects processors, 
microphones, keyboards, computers, drum 
machines, synthesizers, amps and monitors, 
all in various stages of repair


Clanbook: Brujah
84
The Pugilist
Quote: I never study the odds. It’s bad luck. Talk to my 
manager. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have some ass to kick.
Prelude: Let’s face it — feel-good charity programs aside, 
inner-city kids don’t have too many opportunities to build 
something better for their futures. Despite the odds stacked 
against you, however, you turned your physical talents into 
something beneficial instead of throwing in with the gangs. 
Just as you began high school, you also began your boxing 
training at the precinct police gym. Quick, strong, and clever, 
you possessed ideal traits for a boxer and soon became a 
tri-state Golden Gloves contender. By the time you gradu-
ated from college, boxing had become your second calling. 
During the day you attended classes and your telemarketing 
job, while at night you hit the gym or the circuit. With your 
coach and a local promoter, you parlayed your ability into a 
promising career in the amateur fights. Little did you know 
they would become your downfall.
The criminal element had its sights set on 
the local boxing and bookmaking interest. In 
you, it had a powerful asset, at least until you 
made it clear to them that you weren’t going 
to take a dive for any amount of money. You 
expected to take a beating for it; instead, the 
fixer smiled and said he admired your con-
viction. Instead of breaking your legs, he did 
something far worse — he Embraced you.
Now you’re a broken man. 
The Brujah couldn’t take 
what mattered most 
to you, your sport, 
but they could 
take away all 
the enjoyment 
you drew from 
it by forcing you 
to deal with it on 
their terms. It’s 
been harder and 
harder to push 
the “night fights 
only” clause in 
your contracts, 
so you’ve turned 
to your sire for 
help. He and a few 
of his associates re-
vived an underground 
fighting circuit with you as 
the star. Of course, this help 
was a double-edged sword, 
as it’s made you dependent 
upon him once again.
Concept: You’re down but not out. 
Boxing and street fighting are what you 
know best, but you still do it only for your-
self. You’re not a brawler or thug like 
many of the city’s other Brujah; for 
you, fighting is an art. You’ve made 
several contacts among the city’s 
organized criminals, and you’re also 
quite popular at soirees and parties, 
but none of that makes up for the 
price you’ve paid.
Roleplaying Hints: You 
undertake everything with a 
grim resolve because all that 
you love has lost its meaning 
since the Embrace. Allies 
and acquaintances consider 
you morose but you know they 
just don’t understand what it’s 
like to die inside. You have a soft spot for kids, 
especially those who want to rise above what 
life has given them; you hope that they 
achieve what you had a chance to 
reach but were denied by your sire.
Equipment: Wardrobe of trunks, 
workout gear and meet-the-press suits, 
endorsement-supplied boxing gloves, 
leased sports coupe, duffel bag


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
85


Clanbook: Brujah
86
The Anarch Ringleader
Quote: Your life’s a joke, guy. When you get tired of Coca-Cola, Microsoft, Puff Daddy and Ally McBeal, come see me. 
I’ll show you the next big thing.
Prelude: Life had little meaning for you. You simply wandered through it, fulfilling your destiny as a member of a 
consumer culture and pushing a pencil at your day job as a claims adjuster. You went so far as to attend support meet-
ings for people suffering from diseases you didn’t even have.
Then you met your mentor on a flight from Los Angeles. He said that he knew exactly what you felt, how trivial your life 
was. He said he had been there himself once but had found a new purpose in an invisible struggle to “disrupt 
the status quo.” Gaining the opportunity to fight in that struggle had given him “a new perspec-
tive on his own mortality.” Did you want to join the struggle? Of course you did. You were 
desperate. He offered you a ride home in a stolen car, at which point he Embraced you. Since 
then, he’s had to handle pressing engagements on the West Coast. But he was right: Since 
you’ve become embroiled in the Jyhad and the anarchs’ struggle against the elders, you’ve 
had quite the awakening. Your natural charisma has come to the fore, enabling you to amass 
a following of anarchs, ghouls and mortals to act against the plots and schemes of the elders.
And so, each night you rise and make another covert strike against the plans of 
your current mark. Deep within, you know that you don’t even want to succeed — if you 
managed to “win” this deadly game, you’d have nothing left to fight. But you’ll cross that 
bridge when you come to it; until then, you have rivals to foil and daring escapes to make.
Concept: Muscle is cheap; brains like yours are what’s really important. You are equal parts 
drive and megalomania, but people usually see you as charismatic until they find out what really 
makes you tick. The end is far more important than the means, and you have few qualms about 
sending allies off to certain death, as long as there’s something to gain from it. Not that 
you’re sadistic, you just understand that to make an omelet, you need to break a few eggs.
Roleplaying Hints: When it comes to fighting the crushing grip the elders have placed 
on the city, nothing is too extreme. Your coterie is simply a matter of convenience, a collec-
tion of Licks to be used in the course of your conflicts. Of course, it’s not wise to let them 
know that, so you adopt 
a demeanor of concern 
for their wellbeing — 
which just happens to 
coincide with your own 
desires. Assuming you 
survive, you’ll make 
a fine el-
der one 
night.…
Equipment: 
Mossberg shotgun, 
converted full-auto 
Te c  
9 , 
shabby ‘83 
Chevrolet 
C a p r i c e 
C l a s s i c , 
briefcase full of 
homemade soap.


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
87
Sample Brood: 
Hezekiah’s Revival
Grass-roots religious movements are nothing new 
— from wandering cults of pre-Christian nights to the 
numerous “heretical” factions of the Middle Ages to 
the millennialist splinter groups of the modern nights, 
reverence for the Powers Above has motivated those 
need of something greater than themselves. And as 
long as these groups have existed, the Kindred have 
walked among them, sometimes masquerading as 
the faithful, at other times impersonating the deities 
themselves.
Hezekiah’s Revival is one such movement: 
an itinerant cell of Brujah evangelists that moves 
throughout the United States, spreading the Word 
of God and taking their sustenance from the as-
sembled flock.
We include Hezekiah’s Revival as a resource for 
the Storyteller, to be used as characters in a chronicle, 
a source of plot hooks, or as potential background 
cast for a specific player’s character. Although the 
brood’s histories feature some specifics, the revival 
may show up anywhere or in any chronicle; these 
Kindred can make appearances in your own stories 
as needed.
Using Hezekiah’s Revival
This traveling troupe can fit into the chronicle 
as bit players or major characters. They could be 
used to explore the themes of the Masquerade: A 
Storyteller may wish to have them function as a 
walking, talking testament to the power of faith 
(doesn’t the flock notice how strange they act?) or 
set them up as antagonists who threaten to expose 
the Cainite race with their depredations. With a few 
minor adjustments, the coterie would even make a 
suitable pack of Brujah antitribu, who may be using 
the revival as a cover for the Sabbat Inquisition or 
may be a pack of nomadic scouts doing reconnais-
sance for a crusade.
In any event, the revival does not respond well 
to other Kindred. While he respects the Masquerade, 
Hezekiah Rutledge doesn’t want to tax his already 
limited resources any more than they already are. 
Despite the size of the herd the revival enjoys, it 
is not dependable, and the group sometimes has to 
face lean nights. Likewise, adding other vampires 
to the mix threatens the already weak Masquerade 
— while Hezekiah and his brood can pass off their 
own powers as miracles, if visiting Kindred among 
the crowd performed “feats of faith,” the coterie 
would attract an uncomfortable amount of atten-
tion. They don’t necessarily attack other Kindred 
(which would be unbecoming for a preacher and his 
ministry), though they may use other tactics such as 
blackmail, rumors, character assassination, or favors 
they’ve accumulated from other Kindred.
A physically oriented coterie would likely be 
able to make short work of Hezekiah’s Revival, 
but such is not why they’re included here. The 
revival is built around a social core — the focal 
point of the group is its herd, not its capacity for 
violence. This can provide its own hooks, as the 
revival may appeal to anyone. Perhaps a character’s 
trusted ghoul becomes interested in the revival, or 
an elder loses significant business influence when 
the president of his corporation decides to make 
an enormous charitable contribution to Reverend 
Rutledge’s church. Almost any of the peripheral 
characters associated with the players’ characters 
can be affected (positively or negatively) when the 
revival rolls through town. Who knows — some 
might even join.
The most important thing to remember when 
using Hezekiah’s Revival in a chronicle is that 
they are sincere. The nomadic church is a front for 
Kindred, but that’s not all it is. Hezekiah and his 
followers truly believe in God, and they honestly 
seek to spread His word. This calls upon the most 
fundamental of Kindred mythologies — God cursing 
Cain(e) and his progeny for the sin of murdering 
Abel. Each member of Hezekiah’s Revival has her 
own interpretation of how vampires should best 
do this, and certainly not all of them are healthy, 
constructive or wholesome, but they have noth-
ing if not conviction. The Kindred of the revival 
interpret their undead state as God’s will — they 
have literally been touched by the divine in order 
to carry out His purpose. None of them have True 
Faith, however; no matter how much they believe 
in God, God must surely see them as a less than 
ideal vehicle for His aims.


Clanbook: Brujah
88
Influence
The revival moves too often to accumulate sig-
nificant influence in any specific city. As such, none 
of the members  has any interest other than what they 
can personally convince people to do.
In many cases, that’s significant influence, 
though. The revival attracts people who have 
searched desperately for any kind of hope or salva-
tion, and a preacher offering such can procure almost 
fanatical service from a devout follower. Also, the 
coterie has a reliable reputation as clergy, whom 
even nonbelievers often trust on the basis of their 
calling. The brood’s high Herd ratings (see below) 
reflect the faith its followers have in it, and their 
service doesn’t end with simple sustenance. As noted 
above, some of the flock attach themselves to the 
traveling ministry. Others may be called upon for 
favors when the revival comes to town — the group 
accepts donations of cash, traveling goods, clothing 
and other sundries that it can either pawn in the 
next town over or use to comfort the less well-to-do 
among their following, which builds their reputation 
even further.
Nomadic Unlife
Depending on where you decide to incorporate 
them, Hezekiah’s Revival can have a variety of 
havens. As conceived, the coterie is nomadic, travel-
ing the country in a caravan led by a medium-sized 
mobile home (which allows the Kindred to hide 
from sunlight) and an escort of pickup trucks and 
aging sedans.
The mobile home has been converted to let in 
as little light as possible. The driver’s cabin may 
be closed off, affording the  passengers in the main 
body of the RV privacy as well as protection. Each 
of the sleeping bays features a pull-down shade and 
all of the windows have been fitted with blinds or 
curtains — as long as a vampire remains in her bed 
during daylight hours, she never has to worry about 
the sun. Obviously, daylight activity is a problem 
for the revival, but it hasn’t had serious cause to 
worry yet. If some diurnal attacker descends on the 
revival (for whatever reason), he definitely has the 
upper hand.
The escorts are passenger vehicles or pickup 
trucks with model years from the late 60s to the 
early 90s. Driven by volunteers, modern-day pilgrims 
following in the wake of the revival, most of these 
cars rotate in and out of the lineup. Some are sold 
on the road; others fail and  need to be discarded. 
For the most part, however, Hezekiah’s followers stay 
with him only in certain regions — the hangers-on 
and contract staff who move with the revival in the 
southeast are not the same as those who follow him 
through the tour of the Midwest. Every now and 
then, an exceptionally zealous follower tags along for 
longer than normal, but this rarely lasts too long. He 
either runs out of money or moves on to some other 
interest — or becomes sustenance for the Kindred, 
who reason that without anything to tie him down, 
he has no one to miss him if he vanishes.
When the revival enters a town or city in 
which it desires to set up shop, it typically does so 
one week before its scheduled event. Hezekiah and 
LeRoy maintain a schedule, by which they arrange 
for space, permits and advertising at least one month 
in advance. Securing these details is work for the 
volunteers or contract managers, since most of it must 
be handled by day. Then the revival rolls into town, 
bringing with it an almost carnival-like atmosphere. 
Reverend Rutledge parks the RV near the revival 
site, and the workers set up camp, staying in tents, 
sleeping in their vehicles or renting hotel rooms at 
their own expense. Especially in winter, the camp-
sites can be desolate sights, populated by laborers 
who spend uncomfortable nights in their cars yet 
work tirelessly with a fervor for Hezekiah’s cause. 
For the week prior to the actual revival, a 
ragtag crew sets up the tent, clears a driveway and 
parking lot, decorates the stage with the meager 
accouterments the revival carries with it and gener-
ally handles logistics while the Kindred plan their 
sermons, oversee the labor and give direction as 
necessary. Most of these operations take place with 
less than a dozen helpers — only one or two have 
ever employed a retinue of more than 20.
During the week before a revival, the Kindred 
sometimes take refuge in local motels or with 
hospitable families, solely to get out of the RV 
bays. The nocturnal habits of the revival members 
sometimes come into question, but Hezekiah and 
his brood have had several years to come up with 
excuses. They explain that because the revival takes 
place at night, their (nonexistent) church insur-
ance allows them to work only during those hours, 
and none of them could afford to work without it. 
Likewise, because it’s cooler at night, the caravan 


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
89
travels more efficiently and uses less gasoline if 
it travels after dark. Many campgrounds and rest 
stops don’t charge for day visitors (or they charge 
less), as opposed to all-night camp and parking 
costs. Indeed, from a variety of fronts, Hezekiah’s 
revival looks like a quirky but legitimately poor 
grassroots ministry. Accepting the charity of good 
Samaritans not only feeds them, it lends credibility 
to their cover.
The Kindred
Although the Brujah who comprise Hezekiah’s 
Revival all claim the coterie as their brood, al-
most all of them have their own agendas. They 
recognize the need for unity for the sake of the 
revival, however, and put their differences aside 
in the interest of keeping up appearances. Still, 
the Final Nights may well spell the end for this 
turbulent brood — or prove to be the catalyst that 
brings them together.
him by God. Although God had cursed him, such 
was the price he paid for the exaltation of bringing 
the Faith to others.
And so began one of the strangest and most 
contradictory unlives ever. By night, Hezekiah trav-
eled the 13 colonies, delivering powerful sermons 
resplendent with hellfire and brimstone. Over the 
decades, however, the religious climate of the young 
colonies changed. Politics rose to prominence; the 
once-critical matter of religious freedom fell to the 
wayside as governmental autonomy became the 
order of the day. Hezekiah persisted, though his 
nocturnal rallies drew fewer and fewer listeners. 
Against the backdrop of the Revolutionary war 
and the nightly skirmishes between the nascent 
New World Sabbat and the Camarilla, Hezekiah 
championed the cause of the Lord’s Will in the 
only way he knew — with the apocalyptic screed 
that worked in years prior. Princes and bishops 
alike dismissed him as a lunatic. 
As with any movement that relies on doomsday 
prophecy, though, Hezekiah’s following grew. It at-
tracted ranks of the disenfranchised, the disillusioned 
and the destitute. These followers formed the basis 
for Hezekiah’s vast herd, and he left small groups to 
establish churches in each city he passed through. 
Once a year — maybe more frequently, maybe less 
— he stopped in on his old converts to see how their 
faith had flourished.
In his absence, most of these ragtag congre-
gations collapsed within a few months of their 
formation. Few of his followers had the same fiery 
passion for theology, or wielded the same knowl-
edge and savvy that could turn a Doubting Thomas 
into a faithful disciple. Still, Hezekiah appreciated 
the irony of it all; despite the wake of crumbling 
churches he left behind him, he had nevertheless 
managed to bring God into each one of those des-
perate lives. In the two centuries that have since 
passed, his songs and sermons remain the same, but 
no matter how the tastes and mores of the culture 
change, Hezekiah still draws followers. True, they 
may falter. They may lose their faith and once 
again succumb to the pressures and torments of 
the Final Nights. But they never forget that, albeit 
sometimes briefly, God had touched them through 
His vessel, Hezekiah Rutledge.
Image: Rutledge possesses all the physical at-
tributes of a dynamic speaker. His eyes shine when 
Reverend Hezekiah Rutledge
Background: Hezekiah’s Embrace should have 
given him a taste of humility — his sire bestowed 
him with the Curse of Caine when Hezekiah sent 
his previous childe to the witch pyres at the turn of 
the 18th century. The former congregational priest 
refused to accept his fate lightly, however, and chose 
to reinvent himself as a spiritualist of the Damned. 
Educated in the dogma of puritanical Calvinism, 
Hezekiah interpreted his Embrace as a test set before 


Clanbook: Brujah
90
he speaks, his gaze quiets dissenters and his statu-
esque posture lets his audience know that what he 
says is important. Despite the many incarnations 
the revival takes, Hezekiah’s appearance remains 
largely unchanged. He wears somber suits and almost 
never dresses casually. His movements are relaxed 
and subtle — Hezekiah doesn’t flail or spit when 
delivering his sermons. He speaks firmly, gesturing 
when necessary, and lets the gravity of God’s Word 
do the rest.
Roleplaying Hints: In most matters, you are 
withdrawn and deferential, except when the divine 
becomes the topic of conversation. At that point, 
you dominate the discussion with your extensive 
knowledge of theology, interjecting parables and 
aphorisms. This is not to say that you are effete in 
matters that do not involve religion. Quite the op-
posite — you know that God has selected those who 
shall join him in Heaven and that He has given free 
will to His creation so they may live it as they see 
fit. Yours is not to judge; it is simply to bring God to 
those who need him.
Sire: Kristofer Heinemann
Nature: Director
Demeanor: Pedagogue
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1697
Apparent Age: early 40s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 5, Wits 4
Talents: Brawl 1, Dodge 1, Empathy 4, Expression 5, 
Intimidation 3, Leadership 4, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Crafts 1, Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, 
Melee 1, Performance 4, Stealth 4, Survival 4
Knowledges: Academics (theology) 4, Finance 1, 
Investigation 3, Law 4, Linguistics 2 (Latin, Spanish), 
Medicine 2, Occult 3, Politics 3
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 2, Celerity 3, Domi-
nate 2, Fortitude 2, Potence 2, Presence 5, Protean 1
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 2, Herd 5, Resources 
3, Retainers 5
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Derangements: Gluttony
Willpower: 7
Jack Tarver
Background: The Civil War left many Union 
soldiers separated from their units. Forced marches, 
last-minute changes of orders and the chaos of 
battle made it easy to desert, or to find oneself 
deserted. Jack Tarver, the conscripted third son of 
a Delaware silversmith, found himself in this very 
situation after the First Bull Run. With no money 
to return home and no way to find the remainder 
of his outfit, Jack had no choice but to live off 
the land.
Unfortunately, Jack wasn’t much of a farmer. In-
side of a month, he had become a highwayman on the 
roads leading from Richmond, and shortly thereafter 
awoke with a throbbing head in jail. Convicted as a 
deserter (of the Confederate army, no less), Jack was 
scheduled to hang.
The night before his impending execution, Jack 
received a visitor. The preacher Hezekiah Rutledge 
convinced the prison guards to allow him to console 
Tarver and prepare his soul for Heaven. Of course, 
Rutledge had no intention of this — he Embraced Jack 
on the spot and the two of them fled into the night.
Jack knows Hezekiah Embraced him to serve his 
own ends. Hezekiah has said so. Jack had nowhere 
left to turn, and would have been dead come morn-
ing had the preacher not “rescued” him. Still, Jack’s 
not the kind to quit. He does what needs to be done, 
even if he’s not particularly skilled at it. In this 


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
91
sense, Jack has become Hezekiah’s manservant, to 
a degree. He drives and maintains the RV in which 
the revival travels, he sets up tents and attends to 
the numerous petty details that, if ignored, would 
cripple the operation.
Hezekiah has made it plain that Jack will go to 
Hell if he meets the Final Death, just like he will 
himself. Although he’s not profoundly religious, 
Jack believes Hezekiah, and has no desire to meet 
the Devil face to face. At times, this is the only 
thing that keeps Jack from destroying himself. At 
other times, Jack simply ignores his situation, doing 
what Hezekiah requires of him without consciously 
considering the issue itself. Each night Jack rises, 
a little bit more of him withers away. Soon, he will 
either collapse under the weight of the calamities 
heaped upon him and destroy himself, and drag the 
preacher to hell with him.
Image: Jack Tarver is a broken man, with the 
bent posture and haggard face to prove it. He rarely 
betrays any expression, having long since resigned 
himself to his fate. Jack doesn’t even bother to groom 
himself on most nights — why bother? His hair is 
perpetually mussed, he wears three days worth of 
beard and  his clothes look rumpled, even when 
they’re clean. A large scar, earned at Bull Run, 
travels down from his right eye, across his cheek, 
and on to his shoulder; he was Embraced before it 
had an opportunity to heal.
Roleplaying Hints: Rutledge tells you what 
to do and you do it. You don’t do it willingly, 
though, and you don’t necessarily do it well. If 
you can get away with doing a half-assed job, 
that’s precisely what you do. Still, you’re not the 
kind of man to give up — killing yourself means 
a one-way ticket to Hell, and that’s certainly 
worse than changing tires and setting up rows 
of folding hairs. Once you had a sort of morbid 
dignity — sure, you failed, but you were your 
own man — and if you could regain that, perhaps 
you’d be able to escape Rutledge.
Sire: Hezekiah Rutledge
Nature: Child
Demeanor: Conformist
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1874
Apparent Age: early 20s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 2, Appearance 1
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 1, Athletics 2, Brawl 4, Dodge 2, 
Intimidation 1, Streetwise 2
Skills: Crafts 5, Drive 4, Firearms 3, Melee 2, Security 
3, Stealth 3, Survival 2
Knowledges: Academics 1, Computer 1, Law 1, 
Medicine 2
Disciplines: Celerity 2, Potence 2
Backgrounds: Herd 3, Resources 2
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 2, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 4 
Willpower: 3
Marion Sisley
Background: Sometimes, a crowd doesn’t want 
to hear bleak, bombastic tirades about God’s wrath 
and his infinite capacity for vengeance. Especially in 
the modern nights, people get enough of that in their 
day-to-day lives and turn to spirituality to escape it. 
In these cases, Hezekiah’s sermons make the crowd 
uncomfortable instead of turning them to God. The 
reverend realized this a few decades into his undead 
career, but chalked it up to narcissistic listeners. But 
in the past few decades, he’s learned that he needs 
to play to the audience. Marion Sisley represents his 
attempt to place a more pleasant face on his cautions 
of Armageddon.


Clanbook: Brujah
92
A salesman’s daughter in rural Alabama, 
Marion inherited her father’s charm. She was a 
genuinely pretty girl, well liked in school, who 
sang in the church choir on Sundays. One night 
in the early 1950s, she and her parents attended a 
revival held by the Reverend Rutledge, and since 
then she has been part of the preacher’s entourage. 
Hezekiah was so impressed with her visage that he 
“convinced” her parents that Marion’s true call-
ing was his church, and that he would provide for 
her if they allowed her to assist him in spreading 
God’s Word. The Sisleys never had a chance, nor 
did their daughter. That night, Marion joined the 
ranks of the undead.
Marion was — and still is — a remarkably percep-
tive woman. She knew that more than a modicum of 
carnal lust underscored the reverend’s desire for her 
company. She also understood that he completely 
denied that impulse — the more he wanted her, the 
more he convinced himself that she was truly one of 
God’s predestined. As such, she knows that her ability 
to sway the flock was only the secondary reason for 
her Embrace. The real reason Hezekiah Embraced her 
was out of a perverted longing, and this has forever 
distorted Marion’s self-image.
Her hatred of herself and her state pales be-
hind the opportunity to do God’s work, however. 
Marion is but one woman and shares Hezekiah’s 
interpretation that the Kindred must suffer in order 
to be the vehicles of God’s greater purpose in the 
world. When she steps onstage or into the pulpit, 
she evokes such passion and joy for the glory of 
God’s Creation that one almost forgets that she’s 
dead (assuming one knew it in the first place). 
In many ways, undeath has opened her eyes: She 
communicates the wonders her preternaturally 
sharpened senses detect and she sings with the 
voice of an angel.
Like Tarver, whom she pities, she believes that 
she is predestined for Hell, given her undead state, 
but she accepts this as a challenge. It is her duty to 
bring the Word of God to as many people as she can 
before she meets her fiery fate, perhaps starting with 
the reverend himself.
Image: Marion is the archetypal 50s girl next 
door: wholesome, demure and charming. She wears 
conservative clothing when appearing before the 
faithful, preferring dresses and tastefully skirted suits. 
Her Embrace came not too long after her adolescence, 
so her face still appears vibrant and youthful, unlike 
the drawn and weary faces of the other members of 
the revival.
When she doesn’t have to present herself, how-
ever, Marion’s shattered self-esteem takes over. When 
she knows she’ll be alone with Reverend Rutledge, 
she wears clothes that expose as much of her body as 
possible without being completely immodest. She does 
this not only to denigrate herself, as her Embrace has 
led her to believe that she is nothing more than an 
object of wanton lust, but also to remind Hezekiah 
of his own frailty. Naturally, this bothers Hezekiah 
in the extreme.
Roleplaying Hints: What a wretched thing 
you’ve become! Cursed with the Devil’s body, 
trapped as a plaything for the impotent desires of 
a vain sire, you want nothing more than to help 
others escape the filth through which you must 
drag yourself to satisfy God’s plan. Each night, 
you find yourself growing to hate Hezekiah even 
more, as he leads his flock blindly down the path 
that might have been appropriate two centuries 
ago, but that is completely inappropriate now. 
Still, you don’t want to usurp his position; you 
simply know that his time is past and his service 
to God has expired. He has lost sight of what truly 
matters — the salvation of the flock, not his own 
veneration or perversity.
Sire: Hezekiah Rutledge
Nature: Martyr
Demeanor: Penitent
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1954
Apparent Age: early 20s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 4
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 2
Talents: Alertness 2, Dodge 2, Empathy 4, Expression 
5, Style 2, Subterfuge 2
Skills: Crafts 3, Etiquette 3, Firearms 1, Performance 
5, Stealth 4
Knowledges: Academics 2, Computer 1, Investigation 
3, Politics 1, Science 1
Disciplines: Celerity 2, Obfuscate 2, Presence 4


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
93
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Herd 5, Resources 3, Re-
tainers 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 2, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 4
away when they became too fervent during the 
revival’s ceremonies. Marion explained to the 
disgusted man what was truly taking place and told 
him that she could not allow the secret to escape. 
When Marion offered Willits a choice between 
death and the Embrace, he chose the latter. She 
told him that he had made a mistake, but Embraced 
him anyway.
Hezekiah was furious, but didn’t destroy LeRoy 
outright. Instead, he recalled the serenity within the 
man that had caught his attention in the first place. 
He instructed Willits in the art of oratory and began 
his education in the Good Book’s ways. Within a 
few years of the reverend taking him under his wing, 
LeRoy was delivering sermons and singing alongside 
Marion and Hezekiah.
Although he’s not book smart, LeRoy is a savvy 
man, and isn’t oblivious to the fact that he’s the 
weapon Hezekiah and Marion are using to stab at 
each other. While he has truly grown fond of them 
both, the way they behave at times disgusts him. It’s 
unbecoming, and completely inappropriate for people 
of God. Still, they are his elders, and until he knows 
he can make a place for himself in the world far away 
from the pettiness of the revival, he does what he 
can to cope with it. He and Jack keep each other 
company on the nights the revival isn’t “on,” and the 
two talk long into the night about getting away from 
all this.
Image: LeRoy is a huge African-American man 
with a rugged handsomeness. He dresses well, pre-
ferring subtle suits and well-made casual sportswear. 
Before the Embrace, a smile often graced his face, 
the last vestiges of which can still be seen beneath 
the solemn look he now wears. His hair is naturally 
long and natty, which he crops short each night when 
he rises, and he lost half of his left ear in a farming 
accident when he was a child.
Roleplaying Hints: Play to both Hezekiah’s 
and Marion’s cues — the more valuable you are 
to each of them, the more power you have over 
them. It’s not about power, of course, but that’s 
all these people seem to understand. They’ve lost 
God’s message in all the backstabbing they’ve done, 
and playing both sides keeps you from choosing 
one over the other. When people let him, God can 
be a potent agent of change, improving people’s 
lives once they let him in. That’s your purpose 
LeRoy Willits
Background: From what little LeRoy has shared 
with other members of the brood, his mortal life was 
certainly humble, if nothing else. The eleventh child 
of an impoverished family of sharecroppers and odd-
jobbers, LeRoy grew up knowing hardscrabble farm 
life and church faith. He claims that the family farm 
is somewhere in Mississippi; he joined Rutledge’s 
brood in Birmingham.
Hezekiah and Marion both took an immediate 
interest in LeRoy when he showed up at the revival on 
a cool summer evening. The reverend saw an honest 
fear of God in the hardy young man. Marion saw a 
resolve in him — despite his poverty and hardship, he 
knew God loved him. During the sermon, Hezekiah 
called LeRoy to the stage and lifted him bodily over 
his head in a demonstration of the “powers of faith.” 
With that, LeRoy knew the reverend’s congregation 
to be holy and earnest, and inquired about joining. 
Hezekiah happily obliged.
The deception didn’t last long, however. Rut-
ledge had LeRoy working at menial jobs, assisting 
the miserable Jack Tarver and “ushering” people 


Clanbook: Brujah
94
— help the flock let God help them. Everything 
else is vanity.
Sire: Marion Sisley
Nature: Celebrant
Demeanor: Visionary
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1964
Apparent Age: early 30s
Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 3, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, 
Expression 2, Grace 1, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 2
Skills: Animal Ken 3, Drive 3, Firearms 1, Melee 3, 
Performance 2, Stealth 2, Survival 3
Knowledges: Finance 1, Law 2, Investigation 2, 
Medicine 1, Politics 2
Disciplines: Animalism 1, Potence 2, Presence 1
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Herd 5, Resources 3, 
Retainers 1
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 6
believe that the modern world has no place for God. 
Ben is the obligatory “bad guy turned good once he 
saw the light”: a former outlaw biker who spent years 
of his life dusted to the gills on heroin and bounced 
in and out of county jails. Since Ben turned his life 
to the Lord’s path, things have been nothing short of 
miraculous.
At least, that’s what Ben would have you think. 
He’s convinced Hezekiah, Marion and LeRoy that he’s 
turned his (un)life around, but the truth of the mat-
ter is a little more complex. Ben was Embraced by an 
archon of the Camarilla who saw Hezekiah’s Revival 
and became worried that it was a Gehenna cult. As-
signing his childe to keep an eye on the group, Ben’s 
sire returned to the Inner Council and awaits reports 
on the matter.
Ben figured that the best way to watch the 
group without arousing suspicion was to get inside 
it. Playing the part of the repentant sinner, he dis-
closed his Kindred nature to the group and, though 
they were wary at first, they accepted him. In the 
revival’s eyes, Ben added credibility to the group — 
in these cynical times, young people often dismiss 
the Church as too goody-goody. Ben makes them 
see otherwise, that life can be as dangerous as you 
want it to be and that God will still love you. As 
far as he can tell, Ben’s got the revival eating out 
of his hand, both ministry and flock.
Jack Tarver knows Ben’s secret, however, having 
followed the Kindred one night and eavesdropping 
on a phone call Ben made to his sire. Jack’s kept that 
information to himself — even Ben doesn’t know 
that his cover’s been blown — because he’s not sure 
how to use it.
Ben continues his charade. While the Kin-
dred of Hezekiah’s Revival know that Ben’s not 
quite so fervent as he acts onstage, he seems 
largely genuine. Also, his physical prowess has 
helped the group out more than once when 
things became physical. Ben has led Lupines away 
from the brood, fought rowdies alongside LeRoy 
and sometimes even helps Jack set up for the 
night’s ceremonies.
To his credit, Ben sees the revival pretty 
much for what it is. He knows the group has its 
own schisms troubling it internally, but they hon-
estly believe in God and what they’re doing. He 
doesn’t see them as any threat to the Masquerade, 
and they’re certainly no Gehenna freaks, so for 
Ben Mead
Background: The only member of Hezekiah’s 
Revival who’s not a direct descendant of Reverend 
Rutledge, Ben Mead joined the traveling company as 
a nod to the tastes of younger, jaded churchgoers who 


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
95
the time being, he’s content to let them carry on 
business as usual. After all, it allows him to travel, 
and every now and then he runs across something 
completely unrelated to the revival. Still, if Ben’s 
secret comes to the fore, the revival no doubt feel 
betrayed, and given their own problems, there’s no 
telling how they react.
Image: Ben’s been on the road for many years of 
his life (and unlife), and brother, does he look the 
part. His hair is a terminally knotted tangle of black 
wires and his riding clothes have an indelible sheen 
of grease. His skin is uncommonly dark for a Kindred, 
as he spent his living days under the highway sun. 
When he takes the stage, he typically wears a cleaner 
version of his normal clothes, including shiny mo-
torcycle boots and a revival T-shirt with the sleeves 
ripped off.
Roleplaying Hints: Keep your eyes open. The 
revival folks seem pretty clear of the concerns 
your sire had, but there’s no telling whether or 
not they’re just good at hiding their secrets. Still, 
a cover’s a cover and you do whatever’s necessary 
to fulfill your obligation to your sire. Despite the 
fact that these guys are Brujah too, they’re talking 
about stuff that’s way different from what you’ve 
been exposed to, which is probably why your sire’s 
up in arms.
Sire: Ahmet ibn-Ahmed ibn-Mahmoud abd-Yzir
Nature: Curmudgeon
Demeanor: Judge
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1991
Apparent Age: early 20s
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2,  Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Athletics 3, Brawl 4, Dodge 3, Empathy 1, 
Streetwise 3
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Crafts 3, Drive 3, Firearms 2, 
Melee (chain) 4, Stealth 2, Survival 3
Knowledges: Linguistics 1 (Spanish), Medicine 2, 
Science 2
Disciplines: Celerity 1, Potence 3
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Herd 4, Mentor 3, 
Resources 3 
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 2, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 5
Brujah of Note
Among the Brujah, fame and infamy exist side 
by side. One night, a Kindred might find herself 
the subject of legends, her exploits recounted in 
reverent tones. The next night, she may find her 
name tarnished and herself sorely out of favor. To 
the Brujah, reputation is a fickle thing, made and 
broken a thousand times with every mention of the 
individual.
Smiling Jack
The tales regarding Smiling Jack are a testa-
ment to the power of legend among the Kindred. 
By turns a 17th-century pirate, an anti-Ventrue 
revolutionary, an anarch leader in the crumbling 
Anarch Free State and any number of other myths 
— which may or may not be true — the renegade 
known as Smiling Jack inspires either loyalty or 
enmity wherever he goes.
Rebellious Kindred have a high regard for the Lick 
calling himself Smiling Jack, whom they regard as “an 
anarch’s anarch.” Currently residing in California, 
Smiling Jack has made an unlife for himself by striking 
at the institutions of the Camarilla. He’s spoken out 
against the anachronistic titles of the sect, opposed 
the actions of individual princes and primogen, and 
even clashed with the esteemed Jeremy MacNeil, 
an anarch leader whose unification campaign in the 
Anarch Free State led to an unprecedented era of 
nonpartisan Kindred cohesion before the Cathayans 
invaded.
Since then, Smiling Jack has been a constant 
thorn in the sides of both the Cainites and the Eastern 
Kindred, leading ragtag bands of anarchs against the 
Cathayan menace. The Eastern Kindred naturally 
hate him for opposing their attempts to influence 
the American West Coast. The Camarilla finds him 
to be a threat, not only for his vocal stance against 
princes, but also because he continually reopens old 
wounds on the West Coast.
Dominic
Although Dominic’s name is not widely known, 
his influence has survived for centuries among the 
Brujah. Over the course of his unlife, Dominic has 
nursed an ever-growing hatred for the Ventrue. Like 
many Brujah, he blames them for the fall of Carthage; 
unlike many Brujah, he became a vampire in that 
fabled city.


Clanbook: Brujah
96
Estimations of Dominic’s power vary among 
those who have met him, but most of his acquain-
tances place him somewhere among the Fifth 
through Seventh Generations. Over the centuries, 
Dominic has supported both the Inconnu (as he 
does currently) and the Sabbat, shifting allegiances 
as his rage waxes and wanes. Many of the original 
Brujah antitribu of the Old World name Dominic 
a nominal mentor, if they don’t place him some-
where in their own lineage. Indeed, Dominic’s 
influence and anger colored much of the Brujah’s 
position in Eastern Europe in the centuries after 
the Anarch Revolt.
In the modern nights, Dominic spends much 
time in torpor or passing unknown through Kindred 
society. According to rumor, he awaits the time 
when he can strike against the hated Ventrue most 
efficaciously. The fires of vengeance have cooled 
somewhat in him, as he has managed to defeat his 
greatest rival — Bulscu of the Hungarian Ventrue. 
Still, this has not evened out his temperament. 
Rather, he now lacks the focus of a vengeful goal, 
and the Beast claims him a bit more each night as 
he lacks a nemesis to steel himself against it. Of 
those young Kindred who have heard of him, many 
fear him. After all, if the stories are true, a waking, 
degenerating, angry Methuselah walks among them. 
He spares no love for his own childer, let alone those 
of other sires.
Tara, Prince of San Diego
From the precarious baronies of the Anarch Free 
State, Tara emerged as one of the “new breed” of Ca-
marilla vampires. Opportunistic and savvy, Tara rose 
to princedom under the guise of anarch sympathy. In 
truth, Tara truly upheld the loose code espoused by 
anarchs, but when she saw the tides changing for the 
free state, she moved to preserve the city she claimed 
as her barony. San Diego’s Kindred had grown tired 
of fighting back Camarilla influence and repelling 
Sabbat incursions. Added to that, the Cathayan 
invasion taxed the already dwindling resources avail-
able to the San Diego Cainites. Long acknowledged, 
albeit begrudgingly, as the city’s baron, Tara waited 
for her enemies to attempt coups, which she knew 
would fail. As the last of her rivals fell to the tide of 
anarchs, Sabbat packs, Eastern vampires and other 
travails, Tara shifted allegiances from the anarchs to 
the Camarilla.
Supported by the Camarilla, Tara gives San 
Diego’s Kindred society the bulwark it needs to 
withstand the numerous threats from without. Al-
though the anarchs resent Tara’s “sleeping with the 
enemy,” most at least reluctantly realize that without 
the contacts and aid the Camarilla provides, the city 
would have fallen under Sabbat influence or worse. 
Tara remains a fairly laissez-faire prince, and the 
city’s numerous anarchs regard her as a necessary 
(and well-connected) evil.
As for Tara’s own ambitions, she understands 
that what she has been forced to do was the only 
recourse. She would have preferred to remain 
baron, but even her great network of contacts and 
agents couldn’t prevent San Diego’s ultimate loss to 
the Sabbat. Currently she plays a dangerous game, 
courting Sabbat scouts and Cathayans alike, turning 
them against each other by telling each that only by 
eliminating the other can they cultivate influence in 
the city afterward. She has an intense rivalry with 
the Sabbat Nosferatu Cicatriz, who is one of the 
most powerful Cainites in the city of Tijuana. Also, 
the “Prince” of El Cajon, a Kindred named Shay, 
wants to return the city to its anarch roots, and she 
often clashes with him. Each night, Tara struggles to 
maintain balance between the eight or so different 
factions vying to control the city. To date, she has 
been able to make ends meet only through sheer force 
of personality.
Theo Bell
From his humble beginnings as a slave, through 
his scandalous Embrace and into the modern nights, 
Theo Bell embodies the Brujah’s taciturn side. Even 
as an archon, Theo sees the Kindred condition as yet 
another form of slavery, another obligation that he 
has no choice but to meet.
Still, the irony of Theo’s position doesn’t abate 
his zeal. He ruthlessly opposes the Sabbat, seeing 
them as would-be lords of the night who are too 
consumed with themselves to understand what they 
do to the world around them. But Theo’s service to 
the Camarilla isn’t entirely altruistic — he believes 
that the Sabbat would make the world an endless 
hell, and he wants no part of that. It’s not so much 


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
97
that he reveres the Camarilla as he sees it satisfying 
his own desires for the time being.
Theo played an instrumental role in the 
Camarilla’s recent reconquest of New York City, 
coordinating several of the sect’s critical battles 
and working closely with the Ventrue Jan Piet-
erzoon to keep the city from falling back into 
the Sabbat’s talons. Of course, Theo has little 
desire to take more responsibility upon himself 
— he has no desire to be prince and cast his vote 
for the Nosferatu scout Calebros to assume the 
temporary position until a permanent candidate 
makes her claim. In truth, Camarilla politics leave 
Theo cold — he doesn’t see the Curse of Caine 
as a deathless game, but as the last opportunity 
to seize redemption.
Coven
The politics of the group calling itself Coven are 
anyone’s guess, but the coterie resembles nothing so 
much as a small anarch pack. The coterie consists 
of three vampires, Veronica Go, Martin Hyde and 
Mercury, all of whom claim to be somehow related 
and members of Clan Brujah. The most prevalent 
theory is that the androgynous Mercury sired both 
Veronica and Martin, as the latter two seem to defer 
to “her.”
Coven is a strange coterie, indeed, its mem-
bers having seemingly little in common with each 
other. Its Kindred travel like nomadic anarchs 
or Sabbat, moving across the country in a classic 
1970 Plymouth Barracuda convertible. Every now 
and then they establish a temporary haven in some 
city or another, stay for a few nights, then move 
on, often leaving the local Kindred no wiser as to 
what they did during their stay. Cainites who have 
heard of them don’t suspect that they are Sabbat 
— were that the case, Coven would surely have 
had some more lasting effect on the cities where 
they stop. More likely, they’re messengers for some 
inscrutable group of Kindred, as evidenced by their 
standard method of operation. When Coven rolls 
into a city, its members canvass the local vampires 
for the locations that specific Kindred are known 
to frequent, despite having never been to the city 
before or knowing any personal details about those 
Kindred. The only reason Coven is known to be 
unanimously Brujah in origin is the result of Tre-
mere blood magic and one overbearing Malkavian 
application of Dominate.
Kindred with any knowledge at all about 
the groups abilities speculate that it serves some 
greater purpose, as each vampire in the coterie 
has his or her own unique talents. Mercury has an 
extensive command of the Presence Discipline, 
and is most often the mouthpiece through which 
the coterie speaks. Certainly, all requests for aid 
or favors from the collective coterie go through 
“her.” Martin has been observed using strange 
ritual magic, which some Kindred believe is 
Thaumaturgy or a previously unheard-of Disci-
pline. Veronica seems to be either the lover or 
servant of the other two Kindred, though they 
have been known to use her as “bait” for Kindred 
with whom Coven wishes to speak.
In the end, their purpose or agenda is unknown, 
except for the strange messages or missives they 
sometimes deliver to Kindred across the United 
States. A few speculations even attribute some 
connection to the Inconnu, which wouldn’t be 
altogether impossible, given what little is known 
about that mysterious sect.
Christof Romuald
The Brujah known as Christof emerged from 
the Long Night of the Dark Ages as a member of 
the Swordbrethren, a knightly order sworn to fight 
back the tides of the paynim scourge during the 
Crusades. Once a God-fearing man, Christof found 
his faith challenged after he received the Embrace. 
How could God allow monsters like him to defile His 
creation? How could a loving God turn his back on 
all the wickedness of the world? Christof answered 
these questions — the same ones with which almost 
all neonates struggle during their early years — by 
deciding that God had abandoned him.
Shortly after his Embrace, Christof traveled 
Eastern Europe. He clashed with the barbarians 
of Hungary, leveled his sword against the Eastern 
Lord Ventrue, fought with Transylvanian Tzimisce 
and their minions and even met the fabled golem 
of Prague. More and more, Christof filled the void 
in his soul left by the absence of God with rage and 
viciousness. Even when he solicited news of home, 
he learned that the lands of his native France had 
changed. The wickedness of the world seemed to 
echo his own tarnished faith — while he was too 


Clanbook: Brujah
98
busy indulging his bestial wiles to notice, the world 
had become base and venal.
And then, abruptly, Christof vanished from 
Cainite society. In the Final Nights, a vampire 
claiming the same title, sire and heritage has 
returned to stalk the nights, speaking little and 
leaving behind him only rumors and what can 
only be described as modern legends. Some speak 
of him as the Prince of New York or the Arch-
bishop of London and that the beautiful woman 
sometimes seen in his company is a member of 
Clan Tzimisce. Others claim he wields the sword 
of Dracula, or that he is in truth a Cathayan 
“Kindred” from the East.
Whatever the case, the modern “Christof” ap-
pears to have come to grips with his own undead 
nature. When he speaks, he does so with the air 
of a man who has spent unimaginable periods of 
time in self contemplation. A few venerable elders 
who have met him claim that his philosophies are 
similar to those of the Carthaginian Promethians 
— or the suspected tenets of one who has achieved 
Golconda. To be sure, Christof has no love for 
the Sabbat and regards the Camarilla with casual 
interest at best, but he makes no claims of know-
ing or belonging to the Inconnu. In the end, only 
one thing is sure: that Christof follows his own 
path, and seems determined to continue doing so.
trates the struggle of the Brujah so perfectly as 
that of the passionate Tyler. A mortal lover of the 
English insurgent Wat Tyler (from whom she later 
took her name), Patricia Bollingbroke rose from 
an inauspicious peasant’s life to a life of rebellion. 
She marched with the masses on London, aided 
in the assassination of an Archbishop of Can-
terbury, and ultimately ended up in a royal gaol. 
There, awaiting execution, she met the Brujah 
Robin Leeland, who had watched her from afar 
and grown enamored of her zeal. He cursed her 
not with execution but with the Embrace, and 
the two fled into the night.
Since then, Tyler has played a vital role in many 
Kindred uprisings, including the Anarch Revolt. 
During that time, as one of the pre-Sabbat anti-
tribu, she took a stand against the mighty Ventrue 
Hardestadt, an archetypal oppressive elder who 
championed the Camarilla. Murdering him in his 
Spanish castle, Tyler was surprised to see him turn up 
years later at the Convention of Thorns. She later 
learned that she had been duped — Hardestadt’s 
childe had assumed his name and role while con-
tinuing to support the foundation of the Camarilla. 
By that time, however, she realized the merit of 
the new sect, though she expressed vehement res-
ervations about how easily it could be turned into 
a tool for elder tyranny and Ventrue greed. Still, 
she knew that it was the preferable alternative to 
the Sabbat, which embodied all of the injustices of 
aristocracy. She reluctantly joined the Camarilla 
in the early 16th century, having watched the an-
arch resistance crumble. Tyler vowed to continue 
her revolutionary cause and carry her sire’s legacy 
forward, and the Camarilla was the best vehicle 
by which to do so.
In the modern nights, Tyler makes her haven 
in Chicago, where she has once again embroiled 
herself in the struggles of elder powers. The con-
flict between the Methuselahs Helena and Menele 
has become the backdrop against which she fights 
nightly. Consumed by Chicago politics in the wake 
of a disastrous war with the Lupines, Tyler has 
become increasingly desperate. With the support 
of the Toreador Helena, she has obtained a place 
among the Chicago elders, some of whom know of 
her founding role in the Sabbat. In fact, she has 
trafficked a bit with Black Hand during various 
skirmishes of the Chicago Jyhad, which her peers 
might find intriguing, to say the least.
Tyler, a.k.a. Patricia Bollingbroke
Background: Perhaps no other unlife illus-


Chapter Three: The Rabble’s Ranks
99
Image: Tyler is a bit shorter than average, which 
she makes up for in disposition. She affects casual 
clothes — blue jeans, T-shirts and simple blouses — 
and wears her long, dark hair in a ponytail. While 
mortal, she contracted smallpox, and the scars still 
decorate her otherwise attractive face.
Roleplaying Hints: The fiery blood of the Brujah 
infuses you to such a degree that every conversation 
stokes your passion. Whether discussing something 
as mundane as a bus schedule or as grave as Chicago’s 
Kindred power games, speak with all the emotion 
you can muster. At times, you must even clench your 
fists to rein in your excitement. Give no Kindred an 
excuse to doubt your fury.
Sire: Robin Leeland
Nature: Rebel
Demeanor: Conniver
Generation: 6th
Embrace: 1381
Apparent Age: early 30s
Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 6, Stamina 7
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 5, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 4, Wits 7
Talents: Alertness 4, Brawl 4, Dodge 3, Expression 2, 
Intimidation 5, Leadership 4, Streetwise 3, Style 2, 
Subterfuge 2
Skills: Crafts 2, Drive 2, Etiquette 1, Firearms 4, Melee 
5, Ride 2, Stealth 3
Knowledges: Academics 1, Linguistics (Spanish, 
French) 2, Politics 5, Sabbat Lore 1
Disciplines: Celerity 4, Dominate 4, Fortitude 3, Ob-
tenebration 1, Potence 5, Presence 6
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 4, Influence 3, Mentor 
5, Resources 4, Retainers 7
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 1, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 8
Evangeline
Background: Italy has long teetered between 
Camarilla and Sabbat influence. Kindred society 
reflects the tempestuous mortal political environ-
ment, and the vampires of Italy know only that 
change is constant. Embraced by a Sabbat Brujah 
during a doomed attempt to oust then-Bishop (now 
Prince) Giangaleazzo in the late 19th century, Evan-
geline learned quickly that unlife was fraught with 
peril. Rather than succumb to any of the numerous 
dangers Italian Kindred faced — raging Lupines, 
fervent Inquisitors, frenzied sect rivals — Evangeline 
rose to the challenge, surviving her impetuous sire 
and becoming something of a local heroine to the 
Italian Sabbat.
Although her influence and power are relatively 
inconsequential compared that of to elder Cainites, 
Evangeline has become something rare among the 
Sabbat: neither neonate nor elder, but an ancilla. 
In a sect comprised predominantly of excitable 
fledglings and cunning elders, Evangeline has 
outlasted what she jokingly refers to as her “trial 
period.” While she may be too inexperienced now, 
within a few more decades, she plans to become 
one of the sect’s most promising young “elders.” 
In her younger years, she saw as much action and 
terror as any Sabbat, but Evangeline has placed that 
time behind her. Indeed, she earned the respect of 
younger Kindred through fighting the Camarilla 
and even counting coup on a Lupine with her 
former pack. Her social acumen has also kept her 
from falling prey to the wiles of elder schemes — 
even Giangaleazzo has been unable to hunt down 
and destroy his former rival’s childe.
As both ductus and priest to her current pack, 
Evangeline leads her fellows on nocturnal raids on 
rural Italian settlements. She knows this makes 
for a dangerous unlife, but as she sees it, it is no 


Clanbook: Brujah
100
more dangerous than unlife in a city that vacillates 
nightly between the sects’ influences. The dangers 
of the countryside are obvious — the savage Lu-
pines and shotgun-wielding farmers are no match 
for the treacherous plots of the elders who vie for 
supremacy in the cities.
Within a few years, Evangeline plans to take 
her nomadic pack to the New World, where the 
vast distances between cities make for isolated, 
desperate princes. There, she plans to slice a 
bloody swath through the lonesome domains of 
the Camarilla.
Image: Evangeline has the vibrant red hair 
and fair complexion many devout Italians consider 
the mark of the Devil. She dresses according to 
whatever circumstances dictate, equally comfort-
able in the designer labels of the nightlife as she is 
in the khakis and boots the countryside requires. 
She is not traditionally pretty, but carries herself 
with a continental grace that makes her attractive 
nonetheless.
Roleplaying Hints: You are vainglorious, but 
not to the point of stupidity. Quite the contrary, 
you know where to draw the line between leading 
your packmates into certain doom and the next 
victory to celebrate around the fires. Accolades 
are almost all that matter to you — you are the 
consummate competitor, always striving to be the 
most… everything.
Sire: Tommaso Ghibli, the Red Shirt
Nature: Competitor
Demeanor: Gallant
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1882
Apparent Age: mid-20s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 1, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, 
Expression 1, Grace 3, Intimidation 1, Leadership 4, 
Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 2
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Crafts 2, Firearms 2, Melee 2, 
Ride 2, Stealth 2, Survival 3
Knowledges: Investigation 2, Linguistics (English) 1
Disciplines: Animalism 1, Celerity 2, Fortitude 2, 
Potence 3, Presence 3
Backgrounds: Resources 2, Retainers 1, Sabbat Status 3
Virtues: Conviction 2, Instinct 2, Courage 4
Morality: Path of Night 6
Willpower: 4


™
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated
+2 difficulty to resist 
frenzy


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-56504-267-0
WW2351  $14.95 U.S.
TM
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
Brutes and Bravos, 
Intellectuals and Idealists
Since the clan’s first nights, the history of the Brujah has been 
one of struggle and passion. Whether challenging the tyranny 
of feudalism or rallying against stagnant institutions, the Brujah 
take their fight into the modern nights. Philosopher or thug, a 
Brujah wears her emotions on her sleeve; woe to those who get 
in her way.
Clanbook: Brujah Includes:
• An updated look at one of the Camarilla’s most important clans 
• Details on every aspect of Brujah unlife, from clan history to 
their  current interests
• New Discipline powers, Merits and Flaws, and secrets of the 
clan
Brutes and Bravos, 
Intellectuals and Idealists
Since the clan’s first nights, the history of the Brujah has been 
one of struggle and passion. Whether challenging the tyranny 
of feudalism or rallying against stagnant institutions, the Brujah 
take their fight into the modern nights. Philosopher or thug, a 
Brujah wears her emotions on her sleeve; woe to those who get 
in her way.
Clanbook: Brujah Includes:
• An updated look at one of the Camarilla’s most important clans 
• Details on every aspect of Brujah unlife, from clan history to 
their  current interests
• New Discipline powers, Merits and Flaws, and secrets of the 
clan
Brutes and Bravos, 
Intellectuals and Idealists
Since the clan’s first nights, the history of the Brujah has been 
one of struggle and passion. Whether challenging the tyranny 
of feudalism or rallying against stagnant institutions, the Brujah 
take their fight into the modern nights. Philosopher or thug, a 
Brujah wears her emotions on her sleeve; woe to those who get 
in her way.
Clanbook: Brujah Includes:
• An updated look at one of the Camarilla’s most important clans 
• Details on every aspect of Brujah unlife, from clan history to 
their  current interests
• New Discipline powers, Merits and Flaws, and secrets of the 
clan
