TM
k


Contents
1
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
By Dean Shomshak


Clanbook: Setite
2
© 2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher 
is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced 
for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the 
Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, 
World of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the 
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, 
Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the 
Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Guide to the 
Camarilla, Guide to the Sabbat, Blood Magic and Clanbook 
Followers of Set are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and 
text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or prod-
uct in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or 
copyright concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters 
and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are 
fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. This 
book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.
Special Thanks
To the Editorial Posse, who have cleverly taken to 
traveling in numbers to increase their strength. Still won’t 
get you a corner office, boys. 
Author’s Thanks
The author would like to thank James Ganong for in-
formation about prostitution, drug addiction and the depths 
to which they drag their victims. I’m glad I never saw this 
stuff myself, but this book would be much the worse without 
these real-life horrors. They are far more frightening than 
anything I could imagine.
Credits
Author: Dean Shomshak
Developer: Ethan Skemp
Editor: Crystal Forkan
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Brian Glass
Interior Art: Michael Gaydos, Lief Jones, Christopher 
Shy and Drew Tucker
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Brian Glass


Contents
3
Contents
The Healing Power of Medicine	
Chapter One: A History of Lies	
Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
Chapter Three: Broken Images	
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
4
10
36
72


Clanbook: Setite
4


The Healing Power of Religion
5
Marla looked up as Doc and the woman en-
tered the room. She ignored the woman, just 
like she ignored the scuttling roaches. Only 
Doc mattered. Doc, who gave her the meth. The 
chain from her waist to the wall clinked as Marla 
shifted herself to kneel on the grimy gray mat on 
the floor. Her body shook. Doc had waited a long 
time. He must want her to do something. Prob-
ably the dog again, with the woman watching.
Doc pulled the little glittering vial from his 
pocket, tossed and caught it. He grinned as he 
watched her watching the vial — up and down, 
up and down. Yes, it must be the dog.
“Want your medicine, bitch?” he asked. Up 
and down, up and down. The last two times it 
was a Labrador Retriever.
“Please, Doc.” She knew the ritual. His name 
was Hayes, but he liked his women to call him 
Doc. He didn’t have to hit her anymore.
He cocked his head. “Medicine costs, bitch. 
I ain’t runnin’ no free clinic. You gotta pay me 
back somehow.”
“What do I do, Doc?” Once, she fucked men 
to get her crank, after her own money ran out. 
Don’t remember the job, the corner office. Then 
Doc said she was too old, too used, but men (and 
sometimes women) paid to see her do it with 
another woman. Or a dwarf. Or, the last month, 
a dog. Doc had done worse, though: His “hospital 
food” punishment… She pulled off the old, ripped 
jacket and the shorts Doc had given her.
Doc frowned then. She’d never seen him 
frown like that: not angry but puzzled. Doc 
turned to the woman who stood by his side. 
She had swarthy skin, straight black hair and 
long nails lacquered green. She wore a dark 
green business suit, carried an attaché case 
and stood very still, expressionless as a statue 
behind wraparound black sunglasses. “Umm… 
You didn’t say what you wanted, Ren. Ma’am.”
“I want to test her,” the woman said. The 
black goggles focused on Marla. “Do you know 
the Lord’s Prayer?”
That wasn’t in any of Doc’s little games. Doc 
looked as surprised. Before he could speak, the 
woman swiftly raised a finger and cut him off. 
Marla had never seen anyone silence Doc that 
way. He stopped tossing the vial of crystal.
“Do you know the Lord’s Prayer?” the woman 
repeated. The meth, she must get the meth.…
“Yes.” Sunday school was a long time ago, 
though. Could she remember it?
The woman unsnapped her attaché case and 
withdrew a glass jar. Inside was a huge spider, 
long-legged and hairy. The woman raised it 
before her and stared at the spider for a long mo-
ment. So what if the woman was crazy; she must 
please her so Doc would give her the crystal.
The Healing  
Power of Religion


Clanbook: Setite
6
The woman unscrewed the top of the jar as 
she walked to Marla. “You must recite the Lord’s 
prayer. All of it, no mistakes. You must not flinch 
or move at all.” She gently withdrew the spider 
and held it before Marla’s eyes. “Begin.”
“Our — our father, who art in heaven. Hal-
lowed be thy name.”
The woman dropped the spider on Marla’s 
shoulder. Marla gritted her teeth and tensed 
her muscles, keeping herself from slapping it 
off. “Continue.”
“Thy kingdom come. Thy will — thy will be 
done. On Earth as it is in Heaven.” She could feel 
the spider’s legs, feather-light brushes against 
her skin as it slowly, so slowly, walked down her 
back. “Give us this day our daily bread.” Meth! 
“Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those 
who trespass against us.” Marla squeezed her 
eyes shut and the world shrank to her skin. The 
spider stalked across her hip to her thigh. “Lead 
us not into temptation and deliver us from evil.” 
The words came faster. Perhaps she could do 
this. “For thine is the power and the glory for 
ever and ever amen!” Marla almost sobbed with 
relief, but remained frozen until the woman bent, 
scooped up the spider and returned it to the jar.
“She’ll do,” the woman said. “Fifty bucks. 
More than she’s worth.”
“Deal,” Doc said. He looked relieved.
“Give her one rock, a small one. I need her 
able to walk, but no more.”
“Yes, Ma’am.” Doc handed Marla the light 
bulb-turned-pipe, and the lighter; she immedi-
ately struck the flame and set the glass over it. 
When the smoke came, she drew on it like she 
was gulping for air. Ah, sweet crystal! Sweet, 
sweet end of pain!
Once it made her feel invincible and ener-
getic (and crabby as hell). Then it just made her 
crabby. Now it just kept her from feeling like she 
wanted to die. She didn’t think about the strange 
woman anymore. Nothing mattered except the 
end to the gray, flat despair of life without meth.
	
	
*	
*	
*	
The old VW Rabbit pulled into the small park-
ing lot of a small church wedged between a 7-11 
and a row of identical brick houses. The sign out 
front said CHURCH OF CHRIST DELIVERER, 
dimly illuminated by the corner streetlight. A 


The Healing Power of Religion
7
smaller sign next to the door announced that 
the church was a Safe Place for runaways. Do-
gooders? That would explain the prayer… no, 
actually it didn’t, but so what? Marla resolved 
to nod her head at the right moments, promise 
anything, and run away as soon as she could to 
find more meth. Not before they fed her, though.
Contradicting the car’s age and low value, the 
woman — Ren — had a chauffeur: a large, middle-
aged man with a bald head. He opened the car 
door for her. Ren gripped Marla’s elbow as she got 
out of the car. Her grip was stronger than Marla 
expected, and her hand was cold. She unlocked 
the church’s door and shepherded Marla inside, 
the chauffeur looming behind. They bypassed the 
sanctuary and walked downstairs to the basement. 
An old piano hunched in the corner. Ren led her 
between the long tables and the black-painted 
wooden posts that held up the ceiling. They did not, 
however, enter the kitchen at the far end of the 
room. Instead, Ren pulled a key from her pocket 
and unlocked a door in the far wall. Another set 
of stairs going down? Marla hung back, unsure.
Ren smiled at her. Suddenly she seemed 
kindly and appealing. “It’s an old fallout shelter,” 
she explained. “We’ve fixed it up for poor folk in a 
bit of trouble who need a room for a few nights.” 
Marla reflexively smiled in return and stepped 
forward. Ren held her shoulder this time and 
steered her down the steps.
They stepped into a room with murals on 
the walls. Men and women with animal heads? 
Wolf, crocodile, cobra, and some long-snouted, 
long-eared beast she could not identify…. Lots of 
snakes. Two other doors and heavy black drapes in 
a third doorway. A font in the middle of the room.
“What the hell?” Marla looked around rap-
idly, took a step back to the stairs.
“Look at me,” Ren said. Startled, Marla met 
the other woman’s gaze. Her eyes: golden, slitted…
Marla found herself lying on a bed — no, a 
plastic-padded table — as the chauffeur bound 
her hand and foot in padded cuffs. Ren stood 
over her. Her eyes were dark brown, normal.
“What do you want of me?” Marla asked, 
afraid. “Please — I don’t have any money, but I’ll 
do anything, anything. You saw. Oh God, please, 
don’t hurt me!”
“Hurt you?” Ren smiled slightly. “Yes, detox 
will hurt a great deal. I believe in — ah — cold tur-
key.” Panic gripped Marla’s heart and she thrashed 
on the table, but the cuffs did not yield. “Help!” she 
shouted, and then screamed as loud as she could, 
already knowing that no one outside would hear. 
Ren pulled a folder from a smaller table nearby 
and flipped through the papers inside,
“Marla Kenyon, age 32; B.A cum laude in 
business administration from Columbia in 1991. 
Last employed at Searles International — middle 
management, excellent prospects, hard worker. 
Very hard worker. Began using cocaine in 1994. 
You wanted an edge, I assume, something to help 
keep you going through those 18-hour workdays. 
Work becomes erratic in 1995… I presume that’s 
when you switched to methedrine… vial of crystal 
meth found in desk in September of that year, 
fired to avoid scandal… and a year later you’re 
working for Mr. Hayes, which position you held 
for the last five years. Actually, many positions, 
I expect,” she said, smiling again. “Some fairly 
acrobatic. And yet you have not lost your memory 
or your ability to concentrate.” Ren flipped the 
folder shut. “You may have potential.”
“Please,” Marla whispered, shaking now in 
fear. “I don’t have potential. I gotta have meth. 
I’ll die if I don’t have meth. Or something.”
“You’ll die?” Ren said. “Possibly. In that 
case, I’m out fifty dollars and have to look for 
another prospect.” She leaned over Marla. “I’m 
a headhunter,” she said. “And I’m recruiting 
you…if you survive.”
The chauffeur sat by Marla through the hours of 
shaking, twisting and pleading that followed. When 
she lost orifice control, he cut away her clothes and 
passionlessly swabbed her down with a wet sponge.
At last Marla lay limp on the table, too 
sick and weary even to weep. The chauffeur 
unlocked her bonds, chivvied her into a black 
robe and dragged her out to the room with the 
painted walls and the font. He splashed water on 
her face, reviving her a little. The man pulled her 
through the drapes into another room. Dim red 
and green light spilled from the mouths of gar-
goyles, and a blue-and-yellow flame danced in 
the middle of an altar. Behind the altar loomed a 
statue of polished black wood ornamented with 
gold: a muscular man in a kilt, with the head of 
a snouted beast and long, square-topped ears. 
Marla did not resist as the chauffeur pushed 
her to her knees before the altar.


Clanbook: Setite
8
Ren stood before her, dressed in a robe like 
her own. She carried a golden rod with a twisted 
crossbar at the top. A belt of interwoven green 
and golden serpents clasped her waist. Other 
golden serpents twined around her arms.
“Marla Kenyon,” Ren intoned, “You have 
known fear and pain, craving and despair. You 
will know them again, but I will guide you past 
them. Drink now your first sacrament.” She drew 
a long, green-lacquered nail across the heel of her 
palm, cupped her hand and held it to Marla’s lips. 
The chauffeur gripped Marla’s head and forced 
her mouth open. Cold liquid on her tongue: salty, 
metallic, faintly sweet; a reptile-house musk slid-
ing down her throat, nauseating… not as bad as 
some of the things Doc made her eat, though…not 
really that bad at all. Marla drank, feeling stron-
ger, until Ren pulled back her hand and licked it. 
She showed Marla her palm; the cut was gone.
“You have received the first sacrament. With my 
blood, I claim you as my own.” Ren seemed to stand 
taller, the shadows clotting around her yet somehow 
making her more visible. Marla’s breath caught in 
terror and awe. The ghastly light glimmering in Ren’s 
hair spread into a hood — no human face atop her 
neck, but instead the head of a giant cobra.
“I am Renenet, daughter of Sutekh. I am 
your god.”
	
	
*	
*	
*	
“No,” Renenet said.
Marla kept her head down as she knelt before 
her mistress, to hide the terror in her eyes. “Have I 
displeased you?” She hated the whine in her voice.
“You displease me greatly with your laziness.” 
Laziness? She’d worked as hard as she had in 
her office days. Running Renenet’s errands, 
both for the cult and the church that disguised 
it — reading endless liturgies and parables, hours 
of chanting and studying hieroglyphics — more 
tasks than she could easily list. And the tempta-
tions. Renenet’s divine blood thrilled her more 
than meth ever did, but the old longing still hit her 
now and then, when an errand took her past the 
dealers lounging on the street corners. She never 
gave in. That was worth something, wasn’t it?
“You fail to learn the proper lessons. You are 
slothful, self-indulgent, weak. I give you no more 
of the Blood. I cast you out.” Each word struck 
her with more force than Doc’s fists ever had.
“I have found a more worthy acolyte.” 
Renenet clapped her hands. Marla heard the 
door to the audience chamber open. Booted 
footsteps crossed to Renenet’s throne. Marla 
looked up to see her replacement.
Doc. Denim jacket pulled tight over heavy 
shoulders. Hair greased into spikes. Cowboy 
boots. Heavy brass belt buckle stamped with 
the head of a longhorn bull. Doc. He leaned over, 
Renenet leaned up, and he kissed her on the lips. 
Shock, embarrassment, betrayal and outrage 
boiled in Marla’s stomach.
“If you wish to stay in the cult,” her goddess 
said, “I suppose you may serve Mr. Hayes.”
Doc grinned at her. “Guess you’re working 
under me again, Nurse,” he said.
“Ghaaa!” Marla launched herself at Doc. With-
out thinking, she called on the last of the divine 
blood remaining within her. She slammed into Doc 
and they flew back, somersaulting across the car-
peted floor. Marla sat up first but Doc rolled away. 
Both staggered to their feet, closed and grabbed 
each other. Marla picked the large man up, threw 
him across the room and lunged after him.
Just as Marla was about to pulp Doc’s head 
against the concrete wall, Renenet yanked her 
away and punched her in the gut. Marla doubled 
over but grabbed Renenet around the waist and 
drew her to the floor. They wrapped their hands 
around each other’s necks, but only one of them 
had to breathe.
Fear pushed out the rage as the world dark-
ened and her head spun. Then, suddenly, Marla 
could breathe again — and she realized that she 
had attacked her goddess. She forgot about Doc, 
now pulling himself to his feet, and babbled apolo-
gies and pleas for mercy as Renenet stood up.
Doc loomed over Marla. Renenet snapped 
her finger an inch from his nose. “Leave us,” 
she commanded.
Doc’s fists clenched. “No bitch does that —” 
he began.
“Leave us,” Renenet hissed, showing her 
fangs. Doc turned pale, mumbled something 
and fled.
Renenet pulled Marla to her feet and smiled. 
Marla stared at her. “Well done,” she said. “You 
have passed the Gate of Rage. Well done indeed!” 
She slit her palm and offered Marla her blood.


The Healing Power of Religion
9
	
	
*	
*	
*	
Marla stood before Renenet, facing the flaming 
altar and the statue behind it. Now she knew whom 
the statue represented: Great Set, Sutekh, the Dark 
God. Renenet took the name of Set’s daughter. Her 
priestess, mistress and teacher — she now knew — 
was a more remote descendant, adopted nearly a 
century ago. The other cultists knelt behind her, 
silent and awed witnesses to her own…adoption.
“Will you pass the Gate of Eternal Night?” 
Renenet asked, the last of a long series of ques-
tions and answers. Marla had assented to them 
all, and she knew the response to this one too.
“I will. I curse the name of Ra and renounce 
the light. Now and forever, I follow only Set.”
“Approach, then, for I am the gate myself.” Marla 
stepped forward and bared her neck. Renenet’s 
head flickered, human one moment, giant cobra 
the next. Marla now understood the hypnotic trick. 
She mustered her will and saw only the serpent 
head. Such was proper when Renenet called upon 
the greatest of all the powers she inherited from 
the Dark God.
The long, slender fangs slid easily into her 
throat. As always, Marla gasped at the incredible, 
impossible sweetness of Renenet’s kiss. She stood 
as long as she could, but inevitably sagged as her 
life slipped away. Renenet caught her in her arms. 
The light dimmed for the cultists too, as Renenet’s 
chauffeur switched them off one by one. The gas jet 
in the altar was the last to die. The Great Mystery 
demanded total darkness. Marla’s heart slowed, 
then stopped.
Marla drifted in endless night. She heard the 
soft purling of water, the river Duat that flows 
through the caverns of the dead. Then, a faint and 
distant light, like the first glow before dawn. Far 
away, she saw a silver-golden boat. Beside her, 
however, she saw her god.
Set Himself.
She had no voice and He did not speak. The glit-
tering sapphire eye in Set’s bestial, snouted head saw 
her entire life, her soul, her pledge, and she knew 
that He was pleased. Then He had the head of a man, 
red-haired, and He kissed her lightly on the mouth, 
turning her away from the distant boat. His lips 
tasted of salt and metal and reptile-house musk….
Marla’s eyes fluttered open. A bud of blue light 
grew into the altar flame. Renenet steadied her on 
her feet. Marla felt hungry. Renenet tapped her 
staff on the ground and pointed to one of the cult-
ists. The young man waddled forward on his knees, 
grinning at the honor, and held up his bare arm. 
Marla drew him to his feet. She felt the pulse in his 
arm, felt her new fangs lengthen. They slid in easily 
and the young man gasped, as mortals always did, 
and Marla tasted his blood, sweet and rich as blood 
had never tasted before, draining down her throat. 
Renenet clasped her shoulder and pulled her back 
when she had taken enough, and then directed her 
from cultist to cultist until she drank her fill.
	
	
*	
*	
*	
After the ceremony Marla and Renenet 
talked like sisters about Marla’s Embrace and 
about their lord and god. Renenet, too, had seen 
the Dark God and received his kiss. So had her 
own sire. Renenet thought that every Follower 
of Set received their ancestor’s blessing this way, 
though perhaps not all of them remembered af-
terward. They spoke of the colors of darkness, 
and the music of flowing water.
“But there’s one more thing to do tonight,” 
Renenet said afterward. “You need your first 
ghoul. I picked someone special. He’ll never earn 
the Embrace but he’ll serve.” They skipped to the 
audience room.
Doc knelt before the empty throne. From the 
way he shifted his weight and grimaced slightly as 
he looked up, Marla guessed that he’d knelt quite a 
long time. He waited until Renenet seated herself 
before bursting out, “Please, Ren, the Vee-Tay ran 
out a week ago; I could feel it; I’m really jonesin’. 
And Gaskin is tryin’ to lean on me, I gotta be able 
to push back.” He paid no attention to Marla, and 
she knew exactly why.
Renenet silenced him with an impatient wave 
of her hand. “You will not serve me any longer, Mr. 
Hayes — not directly. I give you to my childe and 
sister. From now on, Marla commands you. You 
must please her to receive the Blood.” She turned 
to Marla with her small, cool smile. “Consider this 
the next step in your training: dealing with old…
attachments.”
Doc looked at Marla, really looked at her, for 
the first time since she’d entered the room. Saw 
her smile: wide, fierce, vengeful. Recognized her 
at last. Turned pale.
“Want your medicine?” she said.


Clanbook: Setite
10


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
11
I invoke thee who art in the void air, terrible, invisible, almighty, god 
of gods, dealing destruction and making desolate; O Thou that hatest a 
household well established. When Thou wast cast out of Egypt and out of 
the country Thou wast entitled, HE THAT DESTROYETH ALL AND 
IS UNCONQUERED.
I invoke Thee, TYPHON SET…
— The Leyden Papyrus
Together we chronicled many activities of the Follow-
ers of Set. Here I hope to provide some context. Facts are 
not history or meaning. Those lie deeper in my clan’s past. 
From the town of Komm Ombo, ancient Ombos, I send you 
this esquisse of my clan’s history. I hope that it will help you 
understand what I sought, and why. Perhaps you will pass it 
on to other Kindred who wonder at my clan’s many mysteries 
and strange practices.
Will you or they believe what I write? Manuscripts can 
be forged. Artifacts can be fabricated. We Kindred excel in 
such frauds. All tales agree, however, that my clan began here 
in the land of the Nile. This is not my first visit. Perhaps this 
time, however, I will go beyond tales. Perhaps I will find the 
heart of the labyrinth, the truth hidden amidst a thousand 
lies and rumors.
Chapter One: A 
History of Lies
I walk the sands of Egypt, ancient homeland of my clan. 
I come in search of the truth.
Truth! Most of my fellow Deathless would laugh to 
think that the Followers of Set have anything to do with 
the truth. Sometimes I wonder myself. In two centuries of 
search, I heard many tales that the tellers swore were true. 
Sometimes they could even produce evidence — such as it 
was — for their contradictory claims.
Yes, old colleague, I kept secrets from you. I deceived 
you about my clan. If I had told you at the beginning, would 
you have spoken to me at all — or only seen a treacherous 
Serpent? Please, consider this testament an act of contrition 
and disclosure. We complemented each other well and uncov-
ered many secrets together. I would not see our partnership 
end with such rancor, especially when we of the undead can 
hold a grudge forever.


Clanbook: Setite
12
Osiris, Set and Horus
Our lineage began — appropriately, many would say — 
with treachery and a brother’s murder. No, not Caine and 
Abel. Our tale is much older than that Hebrew fable, and 
the two brothers were gods.
Even in this unlettered age, many people know the ver-
sion of the story told by the Greek essayist Plutarch. In his 
honor, I shall use the Greek names for Egypt’s gods. I also act 
from honesty…and prudence. Were I to employ the names 
reconstructed by archaeologists — Ausor for Osiris, Heru for 
Horus, and so on — I would commit a small and subtle lie, 
for those names are but speculations. No man living knows 
how to pronounce Egyptian names correctly. That secret 
the Followers of Set jealously preserve. If I told you the true 
pronunciations, I would place both our existences in danger.
In the ancient times when the gods lived on Earth and 
ruled Egypt directly, the sun-god Ra grew old and decided 
to retire. Ra chose his great-grandson Osiris as his heir and 
successor. This did not sit well with Osiris’ brother, Set. Our 
progenitor was the mightiest warrior among the gods. Every 
night he guarded the sun-barque as it passed under the Earth 
from the gates of sunset to the gates of dawn. Every night he 
battled Apep, the Great Serpent of Darkness, so that the sun 
might rise again. Did his valor count for nothing?
Set’s jealousy and wounded pride drove him to murder 
his brother. He fashioned a beautiful coffin proportioned 
exactly to Osiris’ body, and said he would give this princely 
gift to whoever would fit in it. All the gods tried the coffin in 
vain. Then Osiris took his turn. Immediately, Set and his 72 
accomplices slammed the coffin’s lid, nailed it shut and threw 
it in the Nile. Osiris drowned. When the goddess Isis, Osiris’ 
wife and sister, used her magic to retrieve her husband’s body, 
Set took more permanent measures: He hacked his brother’s 
body to bits and scattered them about Egypt. Patiently, Isis 
gathered the fragments, reassembled the body of Osiris and 
used her magic to conceive a child by her dead husband.
When their child Horus grew to manhood, he challenged 
Set for the kingship of the gods. Some legends speak of mighty 
battles between gods and armies. Other tales describe their 
strife as a farcical court case, full of low tricks and silly contests. 
One way or another, Horus prevailed. Horus lost an eye in 
their strife; in revenge, he castrated Set. Osiris, meanwhile, 
became King of the Dead just as his son became King of the 
Living; and the Pharaonic dynasties henceforth claimed to 
rule by descent from Horus the Avenger. As compensation, 
Ra gave Set two foreign goddesses as concubines and made 
him god of storms: “He will thunder in the sky and make 
men afraid.”
So much for the myths that the mortals know. I know many 
variations, all claiming to be the true story of Set and Osiris.
The Cainites’ fragmented collection of wonder-tales, 
the Book of Nod, says that Set and Osiris were mortals, not 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
13
gods; and that both became vampires and fought many battles 
directly. Set eventually defeated Osiris — a foregone conclu-
sion, my clanmates like to say — but Isis restored him from 
Final Death and bore him Horus as a child.
I know, old friend — Kindred legend paints half the 
gods and heroes of antiquity as blood-sucking monsters like 
ourselves. I do not believe most of these myths either. The 
legend of Osiris the vampire seems to have spread further than 
most such claims, however, and shows unusual elaborations.
According to a creature of the Giovanni clan, whom I 
paid well for the information, Osiris survived as an undead 
for more than a thousand years. He established a secret order 
of his ilk who sought to resist the Beast through ritual, prayer 
and self-denial. This secret cult, the Children of Osiris, knew 
how to survive without blood and could return their broth-
ers from Final Death. Pietro Giovanni sought this cult for 
fifty years, hoping to wrest the latter secret from them. I can 
well imagine the Giovanni’s interest in returning vampires 
from Final Death!
An aged apothecary in London’s Little Egypt ghetto — 
whom his neighbors called a sorcerer — told me that Horus 
became immortal in another way. Thutmose al-Khalseran 
told of a potent Spell of Life that enabled persons to live 
over and over again, returning from death to a restored body. 
Horus and the rest of these “Reborn” pursued an eternal war 
against Set and all his childer. Naturally, I did not tell him 
of my own lineage.
I heard later that Pietro Giovanni disappeared on an 
expedition to Tibet. I cannot imagine why he would search 
there, of all places. I cannot verify al-Khalseran’s tale and do 
not believe it, either, any more than I believe that the Sun 
is literally a boat sailing across the sky.
My grandsire Shenebti gave yet another tale. She denied 
what the legends of the other clans say. Their “First City,” she 
said, was Annu, the city of Ra. The Greeks called it Heliopo-
lis. The Bible calls it On. “Enoch” is just another variation. 
Heliopolis-Annu is now a rather nice suburb of Cairo. The 
middle-class Egyptians who live there would be astonished 
to learn that they walk over the House of the Eclipse, one of 
the oldest and most prestigious temples to Set.
Shenebti insisted that Set, Osiris and Horus were indeed 
gods. Not mortal kings, not even magicians, but gods. She 
recounted Plutarch’s familiar tale…then spoke of what hap-
pened after the victory of Horus.
When the other gods acclaimed Horus as their new king, 
Ra turned on his faithful defender and cursed Set to live in 
darkness forever. Then the gods thrust Set into Duat, the dark 
Underworld of the dead, and the river of death whose waters 
come from the Primeval Ocean itself. Here Set fought the 
great serpent Apep once more. He slew the Worm of Darkness 
and ate its heart. With Apep’s death he took on Apep’s dark 
wisdom and learned secrets hidden from the beginning of the 
world. When Ra created the world, he gave it life through 
his own semen, creating gods and the souls of human beings 
alike. Souls differed in size but not in kind. Jealous Ra lied 
to all his children. He told them that he was mightiest of all 
things, creator of the universe, when he merely shaped a tiny 
portion of the Primeval Waters. Now, however, Set knew the 
truth: All souls could grow as mighty as their tyrant father 
and become creators themselves.
Set returned to the world by stealth. The Primeval 
Waters carry life as well as death. Every year, the gates of the 
world open to let the Primeval Waters bring new life through 
the yearly inundation of the Nile. Set disguised himself as a 
water-serpent and slipped through the gates with the rushing 
waters. He swore to overthrow Ra — not for revenge but for 
compassion, to liberate the souls Ra held in bondage.
Despite the power gained from Apep, Set still had to hide 
from the sun; he could not break the curse of Ra. Nor did he 
truly live, for he had tasted the waters of death. As he walked 
the night, however, Set found twelve human disciples to hear 
his message of rebellion against the tyranny of the gods. The 
disciples swore to follow Set. To seal their oath, they used a 
warrior’s rite: They mingled their blood with Set’s in a bowl 
and drank from it, swearing thus to become brothers and 
sisters in the coming struggle. Set even granted them equal 
shares in his own divine power. They too would become gods.
As the last disciple drank, however, the company of 
the great gods appeared. The treacherous Moon, whom Set 
trusted to keep silent, told the other gods about Set’s return. 
Ra the tyrant decreed that all who joined Set’s cause would 
share his banishment from the Sun and his castration, and 
that having sealed their pact in blood the thirteen would 
feed on blood alone.
Now Set learned what flawed vessels humans were. His 
twelve disciples wailed at the curse and begged for mercy, 
saying that Set misled them. Their betrayal outraged Set. (He 
always did have a short temper.) He swore that if they would 
not help him fight the gods, after all he had given them, he 
would destroy them as well, though it take him a million years!
And so, from the curses of Ra and the power of Apep, Set 
and his twelve disciples became the first vampires. In time they 
learned to pass their curse and their power to other mortals, 
becoming the founders of the thirteen clans. Set remained 
the greatest of the thirteen, for he had been a true god and 
the source of the power wielded by his treacherous disciples. 
The others never forgave their benefactor for witnessing their 
treachery and their cowardice. Set’s childer remained faithful 
to him: He learned from his mistakes and chose more carefully. 
The childer of the other First Vampires schemed against their 
sires. We, the Mesu Bedshet, Children of Rebellion, remain 
loyal — and this is as gall in the mouths of Set’s rivals. They 
taught their childer to hate and fear Set and his clan; they 
invented fables to hide how they themselves became vampires.
Treachery and lies. They haunt the history of the “Kindred” 
from the beginning. The Book of Nod, Shenebti’s tale and the 
dozen other stories about the origin of vampires agree on nothing 
else. They speak no history, but in this they surely tell the truth.


Clanbook: Setite
14
I know one other truth. The demons of Egypt are real. 
I have seen sorcerers of my clan evoke the serpent-demons 
of Duat and the divine servitors we call Bau. The Bau take 
the form of the god from whom they emanate.
The Followers of Set call these gods the Aeons. My clan 
teaches that the Aeons serve Ra just as the Bau serve the gods. 
If the servants and emanations of the gods are real, may not 
the gods and Ra be real as well? As I said before, however, 
my clan also teaches that these are false gods who tell only 
lies — the gaolers of the world.
The Ancient World
I once believed in a god, a Holy Trinity. I believed that 
Jesus loved me and would cast me into Hell to burn forever if 
I did not love Him back. The Followers of Set helped me see 
the inconsistencies in that particular doctrine. They offered 
me Set instead, but having escaped one god I did not want 
to surrender to another.
Enough of myth! I desired history. What had my clan 
done? How should I understand my clan except through its 
deeds? Surely we, the undead immortals, must preserve true 
accounts of ancient times. I sought the elders of all the clans.
Yet we are not as ageless as we pretend. The truly ancient 
ones, the vampires who lived in the time of the pharaohs — 
so few remain. They met Final Death, or fell asleep long ago. 
Even their childer’s childer guess at their true names. I found 
only traditions passed from sire to childe, and manuscripts 
copied from copies.
I learned that sires can lie. I learned that manuscripts can 
be forged. Always some other temple held the true, eyewit-
ness record of ancient nights. In my own clan and the others, 
however, all the traditions agree that the Followers of Set ruled 
the Egyptian night of long ago. Beyond that, all is rumor and 
hearsay — save for the threads that bind one tale to the next.
Pharaonic Egypt
We began in Egypt, like civilization itself, and we ruled the 
night. In other lands, vampires of several clans schemed and 
fought for power; not so along the Nile. Bounded by desert to 
east and west and sea to the north, Egypt lay on no easy paths 
of invasion or migration. When vampires of other clans came 
to elder Khem, carried by merchant caravans or daring the 
wastes themselves, they knelt in obeisance to the Hierophants 
of Set…or they met Final Death. The Nosferatu dwelt in the 
Nile mud; other vampires joined the Followers of Set in the 
towns. We, however, outnumbered them all. Egypt’s popula-
tion and cities let us grow into one of the world’s largest clans.
In those days, of course, “largest” was very much a 
relative term. The Census of Belit-Sheri claims that in 
the reign of Sargon of Akkad, no lineage held more than 
60 vampires — none of them more than three generations 
from their Antediluvian forebear. The priestess at the Cave 
of Apples, who showed me a rubbing of the Census tablets, 
said that Belit-Sheri accurately recorded the numbers of Set’s 
descendants at this time, 2600 BCE. I never saw the records 
of our clan that the priestess cited, for she said the Temple 
of Ombos held the only copies. A bad joke, that. I already 
knew that Ombos was no more.
Ancient Enemies
My most ancient sires had other enemies than vampires. 
The magician-priests of Egypt’s other gods fought the Follow-
ers of Set at every turn. For 3000 years, they strove to bind 
Egypt in a net of magic, to the greater glory of the Aeons 
they served. They called this net Maat, the Order of Things: 
natural, social and moral law all in one, a law to hold Egypt 
in stasis forever. The Followers of Set strove to rip the net of 
Maat. Rage, lust, craving, ambition — through these, Set’s 
gifts, do men live as men instead of slaves. Were the priests 
of the Aeons to finish their Web of Maat, not one high heart 
would risk death for an enemy’s doom, a pouch of gold or 
his true love’s lips. Men would simply obey, placidly, forever.
I sympathize with this aspect of my clan’s teachings. The 
priests of Ra and Osiris are dust, but the Aeons still weave nets 
to snare men’s hearts and dull their minds. The Followers of 
Set no longer strive against wizard-priests, spell against spell. 
Instead they battle the Aeons directly, one heart at a time.
The ancient Setites also strove against fierce shapeshift-
ers, part human and part cat or jackal. We fight them still. The 
beast-men draw power from the spirit world to block our spells, 
while their claws rend our flesh and drag us into Ra’s deadly light.
I understand why the were-cats hate us. They claim de-
scent from Bast, one of my clan’s divine enemies. I presume 
that the were-jackal tribe of Lupines would claim descent 
from the god Anubis. In myth, Anubis conducted the dead 
to Osiris’ hall of judgment. Perhaps the jackal-folk hate us 
because, caught between life and death as we are, we never 
walk that road unless someone slays us.
The priest-magicians and shapeshifters had one great 
weakness: They grew old and died, and the Followers of Set 
did not. I cannot say this of our third great legendary enemy, 
the Shemsu Heru or Reborn. The folk of ancient Egypt mum-
mified their dead because they believed their souls would 
someday return to their bodies and live again. The legends 
say that Isis created a mighty spell to achieve this very feat. 
A person so enchanted would sojourn in the Afterlife but 
return from death, lifetime after lifetime. Led by no less than 
Horus himself — as my London apothecary said — these 
living mummies war upon us century after century.
That, at least, is the story. I have never met anyone who 
claimed he or she was a living mummy. Neither has any other 
Follower of Set whom I know. Always the tale happened to a 
friend of the teller’s sire, or long ago. The werecats and were-
jackals are all too real, but I think the Reborn are a fable.
Changing Fortunes
Through millennia of struggle with the shapeshifters and 
mortal priests, the fortunes of the Children of Rebellion rose 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
15
and fell. Sometimes, our enemies hounded us day and night 
and even the mightiest Followers of Set walked in fear. Other 
times the Setites held the whip and took their full revenge.
The Old Kingdom…. No matter which temple I visited, 
I never found my clan’s writings from the Old Kingdom — 
strange, since we (like the Egyptians themselves) seem to write 
down everything and delight in our own history. Always the 
librarian said that some other temple held my clan’s chronicles 
from the Old Kingdom.
The mortals built a temple here at Ombos — a double 
temple, really, dedicated both to Set and Horus as the Lords of 
the Two Lands. Horus ruled Lower Egypt and the black land 
by the Nile, while Set ruled Upper Egypt and the red land of 
the desert. On the walls of ruined temples and tombs, I can 
still see paintings of the two gods. They clasp hands over a 
papyrus reed and a lotus blossom: the plants that symbolized 
the Two Lands. I must wonder when the war between Set and 
Horus truly began, and why. I must wonder what the eldest 
of my clan hide from the rest of us.
In the 7th and 8th dynasties, the Old Kingdom fell apart. 
The nomarchs — the local lords of cities and provinces — 
defied the pharoahs. My clan takes credit for the continuous 
civil war that smoldered as nomarch fought nomarch. In 
this time of chaos, I am told, the early Followers of Set ruled 
openly, as nomarchs themselves. Thousands of conscripted 
peasants labored to dig great temples of Set beneath Egypt’s 
eldest cities. The blood of men and oxen flowed in rivers to 
feed the Children of Rebellion and honor the Dark God.
It may be true. The archeologists of the kine can find hardly 
any records from this period. No one among the kine had much 
time to chisel inscriptions that would outlast the millennia…and 
my clan had plenty of time to destroy any records from this age. 
Perhaps some long-lost tomb from this period contains papyrus 
scrolls that will astonish and terrify the world.
Our power waned again with the start of the Middle 
Kingdom. Powerful monarchs and priesthoods forced the 
Followers of Set to hide. The centuries of the Theban dy-
nasties may have been a golden age for Egyptian art, culture 
and conquest, but not for the Children of Rebellion. Slowly, 
my ancestors labored to weaken the Pharaoh’s hold over the 
nomarchs and create another civil war.…
…And then Set himself roused to deliver Egypt into 
our hands at one stroke. In the 18th century BCE, he rode 
across the Sinai Desert in a chariot pulled by dragons from 
Duat, with the army of the Hyksos barbarians at his back. 
He raised his hand, and desert storms swept across the Black 
Land; he clenched his fist, and lightning crashed down upon 
the palaces; he shouted, and the earth shook and the temples 
of the gods fell down; and the iron blades of the Hyksos shat-
tered the bronze swords and spears of Egypt.
Set then slept again, but for 200 years the Hyksos kings 
ruled Lower Egypt in his name. They forced tribute from the 
native princes of Upper Egypt. The Hyksos filled the Nile 
Delta with black granite sphinxes, monuments and statues 
of Set, whom they called Sutekh. They treated the Followers 
of Set with honor. The Hyksos built for us the greatest of our 
temples, in the Nile Delta city of Tanis. Mortal wizards and 
undead sorcerers labored together to craft mighty talismans 
and plumb the depths of magic. Kings and princes drank the 
blood of Set as a royal sacrament.
Thus I heard from the priests of a dozen temples, as they 
showed me old murals of Set and the Hyksos. The priests said 
that when Set returns he will lead a new army with stranger 
weapons. These new barbarians will join the Children of 
Rebellion to conquer the world.
At another dozen temples, however, the priests swore 
that this glorious age never happened. The Hyksos came by 
themselves and, although they made Sutekh their favorite 
god, they persecuted the Followers of Set. Decide for yourself 
which version to believe.
All things pass and the Aeons never tire. Once again the 
Aeons worked through the princes of Thebes. Armed, so our 
chronicles say, with magic from the gods and allied to mum-
mies, Lupines and Bast’s brood, the Theban lords drove the 
Hyksos from Egypt. They established the New Kingdom. The 
new dynasty ordered the statues of Set destroyed, or re-carved 
to show the ibis-head of Thoth instead. They chiseled out the 
inscriptions and gave Hyksos sphinxes Egyptian faces. Very 
few Hyksos monuments remain, outside our secret temples. 
The Setites of that age sacrificed half their number and their 
temples to the purge, that the remaining half might remain 
hidden from the Thebans’ wrath. Setite craftsmen carved 
effigies of those who met Final Death and wrote their names 
on the walls of mortuary shrines. I have stood in the Garden 
of Asps’ shrine to their memory, and the world of the dead 
seemed very close indeed. The martyrs still receive a yearly 
sacrifice, though I suspect that none of them volunteered. I 
know my clan too well.
The 18th dynasty ended with a…not a dark moment 
for the Followers of Set. Say rather, a time of terrible light. 
The priests of Amun-Ra steadily gained power under the 
Theban pharaohs, until the pharaoh Akhenamun abolished 
the worship of every god but his own: The god Aton, the 
visible disk of the sun. The pharaoh changed his name to 
Akhenaton and built the desert city of Amarna as his new 
capital. My ancient sires found this whimsically eccentric. 
They did not laugh, however, when Akhenaton invited 
wizard-priests and sages from throughout the known world to 
Amarna. He declared that as there was only one god, Aton, 
they should merge their magic arts into one art. He asked 
that they combine their power to fix the Sun within the sky, 
so that night would never come and Aton’s light would shine 
on everyone without interruption, forever.
Of course the task was impossible — but my Setite 
grandsires did not know this. They too believed that the 
Sun was a god, perhaps carried across the sky in a boat. The 
Chronicle of the Final Day, that I read in the Red Temple of 
Thebes, records the elders’ terror lest the wizards succeed in 


Clanbook: Setite
16
abolishing the night. The wizards repelled their mightiest 
curses; the pharaoh’s soldiers and his own impossible luck 
foiled their ghoul assassins. Ironically, the priests of Amun-Ra 
saved the night. They roused the nomarchs, the army and 
the common people against the mad pharaoh, all demanding 
the return of their cherished multitude of gods. The rebels 
sacked Amarna and killed Akhenaton and most of his family. 
They chiseled out Akhenaton’s name from his inscriptions 
and smashed his statues, so that he should find no place in 
the Afterlife and die a second death.
The rebels did leave one small son of Akhenaton’s alive as 
a figurehead prince. He was named Tutankhamun. I have found 
only one brief mention of him in my clan’s archives: he was a very 
minor king, for all his present fame, and my clan ignored him.
The clan’s fortunes improved in the 19th dynasty. That 
line of pharaohs honored Set as the god of war, the god who 
could bring victory over foreigners. Two pharaohs took the 
throne-name of Seti. Others called themselves “Beloved of Set” 
in their inscriptions. Ramesses II rebuilt the old Temple of Set 
in the city of Tanis. The temple so impressed the Eternals of 
Sothis — the eldest of our clan, whom we consider the childer 
of Great Set himself — that they made the temple their haven. 
Our clan gained a capital of sorts and a ruling council of elders.
This favor for the god extended to his undead childer 
and affected them strangely. When the worship of Set became 
patriotic, the Followers of Set became patriots. Ankhmaset’s 
panegyric on Ramesses II praised him like a Napoleon, as the 
almighty soul of the nation — conqueror and savior in one. 
I found no record of Ramesses II becoming a ghoul, but that 
would explain his 67-year reign and more than 100 children. 
Priest and Setite, Lupine and werecat briefly set aside their 
hostility to revel in the pride and power of Egypt.
The Setites of the time, however, completely missed 
the significance of a slave revolt in the province of Goshen. 
Ramesses II defeated the rebellious “Apirus” and they fled east 
into the Sinai Desert. Centuries later, the slaves’ descendants 
became the nation of the Hebrews. More centuries passed 
before the Followers of Set realized that Ra had assumed 
a new mask and perpetrated a powerful new deception to 
enchain the human soul.
After the 19th dynasty, a line of weak pharaohs squan-
dered Egypt’s wealth to expand the temples of Amun and 
other gods. Eventually the priests of Amun helped a Libyan 
general usurp the throne. Once more the magician-priests 
made war upon the Followers of Set and harried them back 
to their deepest, most secret catacombs. We would never 
forget that lesson: Trust no one but another Setite!
Dynasty followed dynasty, some native Egyptian, some 
Libyan or Nubian or Ethiopian. The Assyrian Empire con-
quered Egypt in 670 BCE. Several Assamite vampires came 
with them. In 660 BCE, the Egyptian prince, Psamtik, drove his 
Assyrian overlords from Egypt and the Followers of Set rallied 
to destroy the Assamite invaders. In 525 BCE, however, the 
Persians conquered Egypt and the Assamites followed them 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
17
in force. For the first time, another vampire clan dominated 
the Egyptian night. The Persians ruled Egypt by day, and the 
Assamites by night, for nearly 200 years. Native rebellions 
never succeeded for long. Only another foreign invader, the 
prince of an obscure barbarian state located far across the 
sea, could lift the Persian yoke at last.
Alexander of Macedon did not take the Followers of Set 
by surprise, though. They knew he would come. They knew 
from before he was born.
Hellenistic Age
How strange that Alexander of Macedon should be 
one of my clan’s greatest heroes, when he was never even 
Embraced. If the Testament of Seterpenre speaks truth, my 
clan shaped Alexander in his mother’s womb with the help 
of the sorcerer Nectanebo, last Pharaoh of Egypt. The kine 
received a legend that the god Amun fathered Alexander 
with Nectanebo’s connivance; our elder Seterpenre wrote that 
Nectanebo infused the unborn child with Set’s essence. The 
sorcerer-king chafed at his Persian masters. The Followers of 
Set gave him a greater weapon than he imagined.
Alexander certainly lived up to his mythical parentage. He 
conquered Persia, conquered Egypt, and was pushing into India 
by the time his officers forced him to turn back. The mortal 
histories tell of his genius as a strategist and his charisma as a 
leader of men. He deserved to be the son of Set the Warrior.
Mortal histories also tell of Alexander’s terrible drunken 
rages and bouts of cruelty to his dearest friends. He had a 
Beast he could not control. Some Setites wonder if he was 
the ghoul of one in our clan. One Setite even told me of 
rare ghouls-from-birth and speculated that Alexander was 
one such. I do not believe such speculations. In the crypts 
of Shiraz, however, I found a scroll writ by an Assamite long 
ago. He tasted a stolen drop of Alexander’s blood and declared 
it untainted by vampires — but genuinely divine. After that 
the Children of Haqim no longer fought for Darius of Persia. 
The Alexandria Typhoeum keeps the treaty, graven on a 
human skull plated with gold. The Assamites acknowledged 
the conqueror as King of Kings and pledged no more to test 
the Setites’ vigilance of his life.
Was Alexander truly the Son of Set? I do not know. Was 
he truly the son of a god? I cannot say he was not. He died 
of a fever at the age of 33. I know of another “son of a god” 
who died at that age too.
Nevertheless, Alexander forged ties that lasted long after 
his death. Merchants and scholars followed the routes of his 
armies, and Setites did too. The Children of Rebellion spread 
beyond Egypt. In the exuberance of the age, they traveled 
west as far as Spain, south to Nubia and Abyssinia, and east 
to India. We learned the magical secrets of every land and 
added them to our own. Although Greeks ruled Egypt, this 
age saw the Followers of Set in glory. All the peoples and 
wealth, religions and lore of the world met in Alexandria 
under the Setites’ watchful eye. Vampires came too, humbly 
seeking to learn the mysteries of Set just as mortals sought 
the mysteries of Isis and Osiris.
One of my teachers says that in this era the first Setite 
temple succeeded in the Great Work of ripping open the 
world’s shell and passing to the Primal Ocean. Of Tartessos, 
the greatest city of ancient Spain, no trace remains except a 
finger-ring graven with curious signs and a few stone blocks 
found in the mud of the Guadalquivir River.
A pretty story…except the dates are wrong. Records 
of Tartessos end about 500 BCE. The city disappeared two 
centuries too soon for my teacher’s fable. Someone is lying.
A Brief Interlude in Carthage
Carthage! This city obsesses many in the Brujah clan. 
They celebrate it as their great lost utopia, where they ruled 
the kine wisely and well, and weren’t the Roman Ventrue 
just awful for destroying it?
Perhaps you expect me to boast that the Followers of Set 
arranged that war — so like the cunning, vicious Serpents, you 
think. Perhaps you expect me to debunk the Brujah’s utopia 
and accuse them of some disgraceful, long-hidden villainy.
I shall do neither. I have read four supposed eyewitness 
accounts of life and unlife in Carthage. They do not agree 
on any single point. Nor do the dozens of “Tales of Carthage 
my sire told me” manuscripts present any consistent picture. 
Confronted with such disparities, a rational person discounts 
all claims alike.
The truth? Once upon a time, several Brujah dwelled 
in a city called Carthage. Vampires of other clans dwelled 
there too, or visited. The expanding, ambitious Roman Re-
public bumped into expanding, ambitious Carthage. Quite 
naturally, they fought to the death — and I need no rivalries 
between vampire clans to explain that! Carthage lost and 
the Romans destroyed it. A century later they rebuilt it. The 
city flourished until a Muslim general destroyed it again in 
the 8th century CE. Anything else a vampire tells you about 
Carthage is a pack of lies.
The priests at the Labyrinth of Bones claim that they 
excavated the sleeping Brujah Methuselahs of Carthage 
centuries ago. They even showed me several staked vampires 
— but I cannot confirm their identity. This must remain one 
more groundless fable.
Cleopatra
The Ptolemaic dynasty ruled Egypt well; Egypt claimed 
them and made them its own. The Followers of Set, however, 
committed a great folly. Many of the clan’s elders scorned 
the Ptolemies as foreign invaders. When ever-hungry Rome 
turned its eye on Egypt after defeating Carthage, the Setite 
elders did not defend their homeland. They left that job to 
the last of the Ptolemies.
Some Setites say that Cleopatra was a ghoul of my clan. 
I fear that is wishful thinking — and our loss. As far as I can 
tell, Cleopatra, last Queen of Egypt, received nothing from 


Clanbook: Setite
18
the Followers of Set. She learned none of our hoarded magic 
lore. We taught her none of our philosophies. She was human. 
She was magnificent.
I never found a Methuselah who could tell me about 
Cleopatra from direct experience. Such ancients exist, and 
most belong to the Followers of Set, but all now sleep in 
torpor or hide themselves. I must rely upon the history-books 
of the kine, or second-hand memoirs.
What a Setite Cleopatra would have made! She spoke 
and wrote several languages. She beguiled both Julius Caesar 
and Mark Anthony; her courage matched her cunning; she 
very nearly made Rome the slave of Egypt. Had Set issued one 
word in her favor — had our elders bestirred themselves, cast 
one small curse to strike Augustus Caesar down — Cleopatra 
could have ruled the world.
Set remained silent and asleep. His childer forbade the 
clan to help one foreigner against another. Mark Anthony 
fled the Battle of Actium, Cleopatra chose death from the 
asp’s bite — Setite even in her death! — and Rome seized 
Egypt for its own.
The Romans did not care about Egypt’s ancient magic 
and religion, or the treasury of wisdom in the great Library 
of the Ptolemies. They simply wanted Egypt’s grain to feed 
the teeming masses of Rome. Thus ended the Golden Age 
of the Followers of Set.
The Roman Empire
Depending on how you look at it, Rome was either very 
good or very bad for the Followers of Set. My clan cemented 
its place in the North African night. The great Setite temples 
of North Africa — the Labyrinth of Bones in Tunis, the De-
scending Aerie of Tangier and others — date from this period. 
The provinces west of Egypt became rich in grain, olive oil and 
cattle. The Mesu Bedshet drank deep from the thriving cities 
of Cyrenaica, Numidia and Mauretania. As the Romans built 
palaces and temples above ground, the Setites built them 
below. Ours are not ruined, so who built the better?
The Romans encouraged conquered peoples to join their 
empire and become Romans too. Eventually, a third of all 
the Roman Senators actually came from Africa. So did the 
Severi dynasty of emperors. At least some Followers of Set 
learned racial tolerance from the Romans.
Younger Setites who countenanced defending the Ptol-
emies did not shirk from saying “I told you so!” They not only 
taught the mysteries of Sutekh to mortals of other lands, they 
defied their elders and Embraced them. The Eternals of Sothis 
prayed to sleeping Set for guidance. To their chagrin, all their 
dreams and divinations showed the Most Ancient blessing 
the young rebels. Thus did our clan avoid the schisms that 
bred an Anarch Rebellion centuries later.
Unfortunately, the history of this dispute remains ob-
scure. I found only slender clues and passing mentions in 
the ancient chronicles. No elder — whether mortal, Setite 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
19
or Cainite — likes hearing that a young upstart is right! 
Most of the chronicles pass over the disagreements. They 
pretend that the Dark God ordered his childer to Embrace 
men and women from other lands and that the younglings 
piously obeyed.
The Mesu Bedshet also penetrated Europe for the first 
time, carrying the Cult of Set to Roman cities along Roman 
roads. The Romans tolerated foreign cults and gods, as long 
as they accepted the divinity of the Emperor and the primacy 
of the Roman state. For the worship of Set, however, the 
Roman civil authorities made an exception.
Our most successful cult, then, cloaked the worship 
of Set in the form of Greek and Roman gods. The Cult of 
Typhon began in Hellenistic Alexandria, but it gained ad-
herents throughout the Roman Empire. Cultists worshipped 
three gods: Bacchus the god of wine, intoxication and frenzy; 
Mars, the god of war; and Pluto, god of the dead. The Cult 
of Typhon eschewed politics. It promised the awful, glorious 
horror of blood sacrifice and the soul’s temporary escape into 
sacred madness. In time, some cultists would learn that all 
three gods expressed aspects of Typhon the Terrible, child 
of Earth and Hell…and that Typhon’s other name was Set!
Soon, however, the Followers of Set would face a new 
faith that hated all gods but its own. An obscure preacher 
in Judea would unleash a storm greater than any of Set’s.
Christianity
Like every Frenchman in my breathing nights, I was 
raised a Christian. My greatest consolation when I became 
a childe of Set was that the clan’s ancient archives might 
hold some long-hidden text that would tell of Jesus during 
his life. As you must know, all the Gospels were written 
decades after his death.
I found no vampiric memoires of Jesus at all. Indeed, I 
discovered only three records that dealt with both vampires and 
Judea from that time period. The first was a letter from the Red 
Temple to a Judean shrine, asking why it had sent no word for 
twenty years; I date this missive at roughly 28 CE. The second 
was the testimony of the ghoul who delivered the message, saying 
that he found the temple long abandoned and disheveled, with 
no trace of the priests except their scattered, dusty vestments. 
The third was an entry in an old Brujah’s diary, noting that a 
broodmate had gone to Judea and not returned.
This curious lacuna ends, however, with one of the most 
important events in my clan’s history. In 33 CE (the alleged 
year of Christ’s crucifixion and resurrection, you will note), 
the God of Storms awoke. Darkness covered the sky at noon 
and the Earth shook with Set’s rage and pain. For three days 
and nights, or seven — tales differ — the Dark God spoke in 
thunder and his childer heard him, from India to Britain. For 
those days, Set’s childer, grandchilder and great-grandchilder 
could not sleep. Sutekh roared out commandments and 
prophecies, giving his childer new revelations and instruc-
tions. At last Set stopped and his descendants collapsed, 
faint from the ordeal.
The next night a delegation from the Council of Tanis 
traveled to their sire’s hidden tomb. They found it empty and 
Set’s mighty stone sarcophagus shattered, its shards driven 
into the walls and ceiling. We have not seen him or received 
any communication since then.
Gnosticism
Over the decades, numerous cults dedicated to Jesus 
spread throughout the Roman world. Some of them followed 
his teachings more closely than others. Many cults claimed 
that they possessed “secret teachings” that Jesus gave to one 
especially favored disciple or another. Many of these “secret 
teachings” directly contradicted the publically known Gos-
pels — because Followers of Set wrote them.
Just as they did with the Greek and Roman gods, some 
within my clan sought to disguise the worship of Set by 
cloaking it with another faith. The Setite cults offered gnosis: 
revelation, wisdom and transformation of the soul. Catholic 
theologians denounced these hybrid cults as heresies.
The Ophites were the most blatant of these hybrid her-
esies. This cult glorified the Serpent of Eden as humanity’s 
great enlightener, who delivered Adam and Eve from the false 
god’s delusions. Through the tree of knowledge of good and 
evil, the first mortals became capable of sin, but also of the 
redemption brought by Christ. The congregation brought 
forth a pet snake at worship services and as a sacrament ate 
bread touched by the serpent.
Another cult declared Jesus the reincarnation of Seth, the 
third son of Adam and Eve. The Sethians propounded a doctrine 
of a false creator who could not see the true god revealed by 
Jesus-Seth. These Gnostics promised that their initiates could 
transcend the world to reach the heaven of the true god.
For centuries the Followers of Set strove to guide and 
promote the Ophites, the Sethians and other cults that 
incorporated fragments of Setite teachings. They brought 
thousands of people to the true worship of Set…but tens of 
thousands of kine, and then hundreds of thousands, followed 
other doctrines. As churches withered or merged, they placed 
more emphasis on obedience and ritual. Jesus the fisher of 
men looked more and more like Osiris the king.
You know how this story turned out. When the Emperor 
Constantine placed Roman state power behind the church 
of Peter and Paul, it suppressed the clan’s Gnostic churches. 
In hoc signo vinces.
The Fall of Tanis 
Set’s disappearance was not the only disaster to befall our 
clan in the Roman era. An equal blow came five centuries 
later, in the Roman Empire’s decrepitude, at the climax of 
four years of global misfortune.
Summer never came in 539 CE. Roman records from 
this year tell how in high summer the sun shone dim and 
cold for only four hours a day. I met an ancient Ventrue who 
remembered this year. Vampires still felt the compulsion to 
sleep when the sun rose, but those who resisted sleep could 


Clanbook: Setite
20
walk unharmed for at least an hour after sunrise, so dark the 
sky remained. Crops failed, from the cold and from the heavy 
and unseasonable rains. The darkness and cold continued for 
three years before the skies completely cleared…but in 542 
the bubonic plague spread from Egypt and Syria to Europe. 
Although less well known tonight than the 14th century’s 
Black Death, this epidemic was proportionally worse. My 
Ventrue informant swore that half of Europe died before the 
plague burned itself out in 594.
543 CE was the year of earthquakes, from the Atlantic 
shores to far Cathay. The last earthquake struck Egypt, and 
Tanis suffered the worst of it. As the chronicles tell it, the 
earth shook two hours before dawn. Some buildings crumbled. 
Others sank into the soft delta soil. Shortly thereafter, as 
Setites and mortals pulled themselves from the wreckage of 
fallen buildings, a great host of Lupines attacked the city, 
killing everyone they met in their brutal rage. When the 
seven wakeful Eternals of Sothis came forth to battle the 
man-beasts the earth shook again, even stronger, and the 
lagoon of Manzala swept into the city. Mortals and Lupines 
drowned; the water pulled many Setites back out into the 
lagoon. The Setites who escaped the water sought shelter as 
best they could before the sunrise.
The next night, the surviving Setites tried to find the six 
sleeping Eternals, but the Temple of Set had sunk into the 
mud and Lake Manzala now covered the whole city. A few 
nights later, a group of Setite sorcerers tried to contact the 
sleepers by magic and could not find them. Gangs of Setites 
dove into the drowned city and tried to dig out the buried 
crypts. They did not come back. The Lupines and werecats 
did not kill them: the beast-men tried to dig out the buried 
Eternals too, and they did not come back either.
The mystery remains. Indeed, it grows…but more about 
that later.
The Age of Faith
The destruction of Tanis marked the end of a long, slow 
decline for the Followers of Set. The spread of Christianity 
in Egypt resembled a good news-bad news joke. The good 
news? Christianity extinguished our ancient enemies: the 
priests of Isis, Osiris, Ra and Horus. The bad news? The 
Christians were worse.
According to the Catholic doctrine I learned as a boy, 
Jesus conferred a bit of his own divine power to each of his 
disciples and granted them the right to confer it in turn. 
Each priest receives this right from the priest who ordains 
him, in “apostolic succession” — just as a vampire receives 
his undead powers from his sire. Indeed, Jesus promised that 
all his followers would work miracles in his name.
The ancient Setites learned to believe in this divine 
force. Legends from this time are full of miracles wrought by 
apostles, bishops, holy hermits and pious virgins. The Setite 
chronicles echo the legends tenfold. Previous religions had 
their wizard-priests, but some Christians performed wonders 
without training in sorcery. These miracle-workers were rare, 
but not rare enough! Many a Setite felt the burning scourge of 
faith from a mad-eyed desert hermit or a crusading teenage girl.
The miracles tapered off when Emperor Constantine 
made Christianity the Roman Empire’s official religion. 
By 400 CE Christians happily persecuted Pagans just like 
they had been persecuted before (when they did not fight 
among themselves over points of doctrine) and miracles 
virtually ceased. In Alexandria, the bishop Cyril whipped 
up Christian mobs against the city’s Pagans and Jews. He 
also led the mob that tortured the philosopher Hypatia to 
death and burned the Library of Alexandria. The Typhoeum’s 
records say that a mystic “Sarmoung Brotherhood” drove 
Cyril and protected him from my clan’s vengeance. This 
secret order was nothing less than the cult of Aton in a new 
guise. At this critical time, my clan lacked the strength or 
unity to fight them.
After the destruction of Tanis, the remaining seven 
Eternals each resumed his or her place as Hierophant of one 
of Egypt’s great old temples. The seven Eternals supposedly 
acted by consensus. The ancient chronicles, however, sug-
gest to me that this seldom actually happened. How could it? 
At any given time, two or three of them might be in torpor.
Some of the Seven also became more bigoted. They 
shunned Setites Embraced in other lands and barred the 
Hierophants of foreign temples from their debates. You may 
recall that Set endorsed racial diversity; you may also recall 
Christians using the words of their “prince of peace” to justify 
war. Trust me, no mortal can equal an ancient vampire for 
hypocrisy and sophistry. The Eternals’ chauvinism created 
further divisions in the clan and weakened it exactly when 
the Children of Rebellion most needed strength and unity.
In the 7th century CE the Followers of Set acquired yet 
another enemy. The Arabs conquered Egypt in 642 CE. An-
other new religion drove them: Islam, dictated by an angel to 
a camel-driver. Divisions among Egypt’s Christians weakened 
the country. Bishops loyal to the Byzantine Empire clashed 
with churchmen and native people who disagreed on fine 
points of doctrine. The Followers of Set did what they could to 
exacerbate these disputes, to weaken the grip of the Byzantine 
empire. More importantly, they sought to replace Christians’ 
faith in Jesus with allegiance to a church and hatred of its rivals. 
Our temple records confirm what some kine historians suggest. 
Cyrus, the Byzantine patriarch of Alexandria, so hated the 
“heretical” Egyptians of the Coptic Church that he betrayed 
Egypt to the Muslims. In hindsight, the Setites of that time 
were not wise to weaken Egypt with infighting. The Muslim 
Arabs were no improvement over Constantinople.
I must debunk a common myth among the kine. These 
first Muslim conquerors did not force the Egyptians to convert 
or die. They merely demanded tribute. Do not think this grew 
from an intrinsic religious tolerance. Christians and other infi-
dels paid higher taxes than Muslims, even if they converted to 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
21
Islam later. Copts ran Egypt’s bureaucracy. The Arabs — like 
the Byzantines, the Romans, Greeks, Persians and Assyrians 
— wanted Egypt’s grain and tax money, not its souls.
Meanwhile, the Western Roman Empire fell to the Van-
dals, Goths and other Germanic tribes — the way an old maid 
falls for a bold young swain. Romans no longer believed in 
Rome. The barbarians seemed like “noble savages” compared 
to the Emperor’s tax collectors. Many a late Roman writer 
scornfully compared their Empire of effete patricians, greedy 
bureaucrats and ruthless spies to the manly, martial, honest 
barbarians. Many Romans cheered at their Empire’s slow fall, 
though I understand that a few Ventrue elders chose to watch 
the sun rise after Alaric the Goth sacked Rome. Thus did the 
Western Roman empire crumble into petty barbarian kingdoms 
and the “Dark Ages” begin in western Europe.
Truly, I’d like to claim that the Roman Empire fell be-
cause of diabolical Setite subversion, but it wasn’t so. After 
Constantine, we had little influence over the Roman state.
Byzantium
The Eastern Roman Empire survived centuries longer 
than the Western. As the Greek-speaking Byzantine Empire, 
it became a bureaucratic marvel held by armies of soldiers, 
clerks and churchmen. All the powers of Church and State 
converged on an Emperor as despotic and divine as any 
Pharaoh. All laws converged in a unified Maat.
More than mortal will animated the Byzantine Empire. 
A triumvirate of powerful Toreador, Ventrue and Tzimisce 
broods ruled the night in Constantinople. The city and 
the Empire expressed a dream of their three Methuselah 
founders. These broods dominated the Byzantine night, but 
Constantinople found room for vampires of all clans. In that 
Christ-obsessed city, theology became a popular sport (often 
full-contact; church council debates provoked riots). How 
could the Followers of Set stay away?
The Setite Khay’tall came to Constantinople in the 5th 
century CE at the invitation of the Toreador Methuselah, 
who called himself Michael. The city was Michael’s dream 
most of all; Khay’tall came to test the city’s perfection — to 
pit himself against the sworn champion of the Aeons. Since 
Michael took the name of an angel, in that city the Followers 
of Set called themselves the Children of Judas. Eventually, 
Khay’tall won. I heard much of the tale from the Toreador, 
not from Setite chronicles. Michael went mad. He believed he 
was an Aeon himself, the actual angel whose name he took. 
As he drifted in fantasy, Khay’tall and his agents tempted the 
other city’s other vampires. Appetites and ambitions still ruled 
them despite the powerful Maat of the city. The Children 
of Judas unraveled the networks of power uniting the city’s 
vampires and spread strife among the kine.
I believe that at the end, Michael knew he had lost. Right 
before the Fourth Crusade sacked the city, the Archangel 


Clanbook: Setite
22
submitted to diablerie by a much weaker vampire whose 
identity is unfortunately lost to history. The city never re-
covered from the looting by the treacherous Crusaders. The 
Aeons failed again.
The Followers of Set could not claim much of a victory, 
though. Some other vampire also destroyed Khay’tall. Visit-
ing Setites from Egypt discovered that the Children of Judas, 
corrupters of Byzantium, had themselves been corrupted. 
They told their mortal cultists that Set was no Dark God but 
a demon, merely one of many who served Satan.
You smile. A Follower of Set, indignant at corruption 
and subversion? No less than we deserve, eh?
I may not feel great reverence to Set, but I do understand 
the difference between a Dark God and a demon. Our priests 
and theologians insist that the Followers of Set do not simply 
“corrupt” other people. We try to change the way they think, 
to liberate them from the delusions imposed by the Aeons. 
I find that Setites often differ on the details of their Great 
Enlightening Truth, but they do believe in it. I suppose I’m 
trying to open your mind myself.
Our “Theophidian” doctrine does not command us to 
prey on other people’s weakness just to make them miserable, 
or to aggrandize ourselves. It most certainly does not tell us to 
enslave ourselves to any evil spirit who comes along. Recall 
that we seek to end enslavement by spirits.
Indeed, our theologians argue that demons represent 
the final degradation of the Aeons, their true form when 
they take off their masks of hymns and churches and high-
sounding gospels. Whether an Aeon calls himself Ra, Jupiter 
or Jehovah, the message boils down to a demon’s “Serve me 
and I will give you something; defy me and I will make you 
suffer.” Set promises that he will make you suffer if you serve 
him, but only to make you stronger, as an athlete suffers in 
his training. When you grow strong enough to spit in God’s 
face, you can become a god yourself.
Maybe that doesn’t make much sense either, but it is 
different.
The Hierophants eventually agreed to purge the “Chil-
dren of Judas” — too late. The demon-worshippers scattered 
and passed their Satanism to many young, non-Egyptian 
Setites. The Hierophants banned all “foreigners” from Egypt’s 
temples, so these childer never learned from the Setites who 
learned from Set himself. Thus the cult of Set rendered its 
first heresy impossible to eliminate.
I take comfort, however, that the elders of all the other 
vampire clans show episodes of equal stupidity.
Holy Wars
My clan lacked experience at purging heresy — we are 
usually on the other end — and they did not do very well. My 
clan still bears a Satanist minority. The elders had no short-
age of distractions, though, so I will excuse them this failure. 
While the Children of Judas wrecked Byzantium and turned 
to demons, several holy wars wracked the Middle East. Some 
Crusades came from Europe, directed against the Muslims. 
One came from the Muslims, directed at us.
Warriors of Christ
For a thousand years, barbarians from the East invaded 
Europe: Goths, Huns, Magyars and more. In the 12th and 13th 
centuries CE, Europeans returned the favor through the Crusades. 
The Seljuk Turks cut off Jerusalem and the other pilgrimage 
sites in the Holy Land. The Byzantine Emperor wanted help 
fighting said Turks. An ambitious Pope saw a chance to assert 
his primacy over Christendom. Ambitious noblemen hoped to 
carve fiefdoms out of the wealthy East. The Crusades had many 
causes but vampires were not among them, no matter what 
certain elder Ventrue may boast or Assamites accuse.
Numerous undead joined the Crusades, though — on 
both sides. They did so for eminently human reasons, just like 
their mortal comrades. The most reliable Cainite memoirs 
and documents from that time do not support any “jyhad” of 
clan mobilizing against clan. European Ventrue, Lasombra and 
other vampires fought for Christianity, for land and mortal 
herds, or for loot. Syrian, Turk and Arab Assamites, Brujah 
and other vampires fought for Islam, or because they wanted 
to keep what was theirs.
The Followers of Set could hardly ignore the commotion. 
In every temple, Setite priests and elders pondered what to do 
about the invaders from the West. Two policies emerged. Some 
elders advocated doing nothing. The Christians were enemies 
of Set; the Muslims were enemies of Set. Let them slaughter 
each other. Other elders chose a more active path: encourage 
the other vampires to slaughter each other. Play both sides. 
Every “Cainite” destroyed was one less vampire to oppose Set’s 
return. Every Christian or Muslim dead was one less slave of 
the Aeons. The two faiths would bleed each other to death.
The Crusaders proved the easiest to dupe, since they 
knew nothing about the Children of Rebellion. For all the 
mortal commanders knew, one of our brothers was simply a 
pale Levantine who appeared at night with information about 
their enemies. European vampires seldom inquired any more 
deeply into an informant’s pedigree. The local Cainites showed 
more suspicion, since they had heard wild rumors about the 
“degenerate Followers of Set.” But if you are fool enough to 
believe that any one clan is “less trustworthy” than another, 
you are probably not clever enough to discern when your 
guest is telling you the truth about his lineage.
Neither Kindred nor kine overlooked the possibility of 
false informants. Thus, Followers of Set bearing strategic in-
formation needed a “cover story” to explain why they wanted 
to help. Tales of persecution by the opposing side sometimes 
allayed suspicions, but the most convincing explanation 
turned out to be the simplest: the informant wanted money.
Some of my colleagues noted that armies required fod-
der for men and horses, water, weapons and a wide variety 
of supplies. An army that lacked sufficient materiel tended 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
23
to lose. This gave Setite agents another way to influence the 
course of battles, by sabotaging one army’s supply train and 
selling provisions to the other.
By intervening in war, therefore, the Levantine Fol-
lowers of Set discovered war profiteering. Not only could 
they prop up a weakened side and keep it fighting longer, 
they could also make a great deal of money in the process. 
A true follower of our philosophy, of course, scorns the love 
of filthy lucre for its own sake. The elders agreed, however, 
that money had its uses and that not all material purchases 
were base and unreasonable. We were not the first religion, 
nor the last, to discover the attraction of commerce. We have 
never looked back.
The Children’s Crusade
I cannot let this episode in history pass without mention. 
I find it bizarre even by our kind’s standards. Perhaps you know 
how in 1212 CE, an army of children gathered to mount their 
own Crusade against the infidel. Heavenly voices told Stephen, 
a French shepherd boy, that purity and innocence would 
overcome the paynim and return Jerusalem to Christian hands.
More than 30,000 French boys and girls rallied to Ste-
phen’s banner. When they arrived in Marseilles, a group of 
shipmasters offered to carry them east. These merchants, 
however, dealt in human cargo. Two of the ships sank and 
the remainder delivered their hosts of children to the slave 
markets of Alexandria. 
Do you look for our hand in this? I am sorry, no. We 
were not instigators, simply…a market. The Egyptian temples 
bought several consignments as servants and, I am afraid, 
sacrifices. But the story is not entirely bleak: 11 of the children 
eventually earned the Embrace and four of them survive as 
respected elders.
Templars
You shall also surely wonder about the Knights Templar 
and the lurid rumors surrounding their secret practices. Did 
they really initiate their members with homosexual orgies? 
Did they really worship an idol that they called Baphomet? 
Did the Followers of Set teach them these debaucheries?
My apologies; I must disappoint you. The Followers of Set 
did corrupt numerous Templars (as well as Hospitallers and 
other miscellaneous knights) into debauchery and treachery 
against their own forces. I have no record, however, of any 
Setite cult achieving influence over the entire Templar order. 
The vast wealth of the Templars gave Philip of France an 
entirely adequate motive to suppress them.
Barbarossa
The Crusades also bring me to another debatable episode 
in my clan’s past: the Fifth Crusade and Frederick II of the 
Holy Roman Empire. The 5th Crusade attacked the port city 
of Damietta in the Nile delta. I am no general, but I cannot 
imagine what Frederick thought he could achieve. How long 
could he possibly hold a city in the heart of his enemy’s domain? 
His opponent, the Sultan Kamil, had problems with relatives 
who would rather rule splinter states of their own, but they put 
aside their ambitions to fight the European invader.
Nevertheless, Sultan Kamil cut a deal with Frederick. 
He gave the German king the city of Jerusalem. In return, 
Frederick pledged to support the Sultan against any enemy…
such as his relatives, I assume. Frederick married the daughter 
of the last King of Jerusalem, crowned himself in the city in 
1229 and promptly returned to Europe. He spent the next 
21 years warring with Popes and rebellious Italian cities, 
chartering the University of Naples and establishing Italian 
poetry at his court in Sicily. Then he died.
Or did he? For the next century, people in Germany claimed 
that they saw Frederick II alive. Later, a legend grew that he 
slept in Kyffhäusen Mountain in Thuringia. Someday he would 
emerge to restore peace and glory to the German people.
These are silly legends. I am supposed to believe in a 
German Elvis Presley turned German King Arthur?
Except.… Four Setite temples in Egypt own portraits from 
life of Frederick II. Like his famous grandfather Frederick I, called 
Barbarossa, he had red hair. The two kings are often confused. 
My primal sire, Set himself, also had red hair. The Children of 
Rebellion traditionally honor red-haired men, for exactly the 
same reason that the ancient Egyptians thought it a bad omen.
The Hierophants do not commission portraits of every 
petty monarch who invades Egypt. Through the Blood, of 
course, Frederick could easily live, unaging, for decades after 
his supposed death. Through the Embrace, he could sleep 
beneath a mountain until Germany’s need calls him forth 
— or someone’s need, anyway.
Did my elders make some kind of deal with Frederick? 
Was he ghouled or, eventually, Embraced? If so, what did he 
offer in return? The Eternals can be maddeningly secretive, 
devious…and patient.
The Purge of Baybars
All in all, the Christian Crusades benefited the Followers 
of Set. They did not harm us (although individual Setites 
met Final Death by misadventure) and left the clan stronger 
than before. Two centuries of European attacks, however, bred 
a Muslim who was more fanatical, militant and intolerant 
than the world had yet seen. Once again, the Setites found 
themselves attacked by men led by priests.
Muslims hated the core attributes of our clan even more 
than the Christians did. Not only did the Mesu Bedshet drink 
blood and serve a false god through perverse revelries, they 
also worshipped idols — the unforgivable sin. My clan suffered 
its Inquisition more than a century before the vampires of 
Europe. Other vampires suffered too, of course. The witch-
hunters did not bother to ask a vampire his clan before they 
struck off his head. They made a special effort, however, to 
root out any and all “infidel” shrines — a Setite specialty — 
in the name of crushing Paganism.
Naturally, the purge became most severe where Setites 
remained most numerous, in Egypt. The hunt reached its 


Clanbook: Setite
24
height in the latter half of the 13th century under the rule 
of the Sultan Baybars.
Baybars was a Mameluke, a Turkish slave bought and 
raised to fight for the Sultans of Egypt. Repeated Crusades 
(such as Frederick II’s) forced the Ayyubid Sultans to keep 
the Mamelukes strong. The slave-soldiers became so strong 
that after the 7th Crusade, the victorious Mameluke general 
usurped the throne. In 1260, Baybars seized the throne in turn.
Baybars and the Mamelukes decided to deal with the Euro-
peans conclusively. They did not settle for besieging and sacking 
the last Crusader strongholds in Syria and Palestine. Baybars led 
his army up the coast of Palestine, uprooting and burning every 
plant and filling every well. When Crusaders landed from Europe, 
they found no food or water for themselves or their horses. Baybars 
created a desert that endures to this night. For an encore, he 
defeated the Seljuk Turks and the Mongols, overran Armenia 
and quashed the mortal Hashishim. He also conquered Nubia 
and established hegemony over Arabia.
Somehow, Baybars also found time to order a compre-
hensive purge of Egyptian vampires. The Setites of that time 
thought they had mastered the arts of self-concealment, but 
not a year passed without another brood or shrine destroyed. 
The Mamelukes had unshakable courage, a great deal of 
practice with fire and steel, and — all too often — enigmatic 
sorcerers who shielded the warriors from the elder magicians 
of our clan. Our ancient enemy, the Cult of Aton, still sought 
to purge the childer of Set from the world and establish a 
worldwide rule of Maat. This time they called themselves 
the Nur al-Allah, the Light of God.
Perhaps you find this hard to believe, but I spoke with 
survivors from those nights of burning. They say that magic 
was far more common then. Wizards often wrought their 
magic in plain sight. The Masquerade has worked very well 
indeed: history forgets all the supernatural events of the past, 
or discounts them as wonder-tales from a more gullible age.
The wizards and Mamelukes even destroyed three of the 
great elder temples, burning and burying their millennial 
treasuries of magic and lore. They also sent two Eternals to 
their Final Deaths. After the Mamelukes sacked the ancient 
temple of Ombos, the temple that claimed Set Himself as 
its founder, the Hierophants of the remaining temples made 
a terrible choice. The Followers of Set abandoned Egypt. 
They buried the entrances to their temples and cast mighty 
spells to hide them from the wizards. Only a brave few Setites 
remained to make war on the Mamelukes: our kind of war, 
the war of poisoned cups and poisoned words.
So the Proclamation of Red Tears commanded. So it 
was done. The Followers of Set carried away every scroll 
and artifact they could manage to the temples of other lands. 
The Egyptian Hierophants swallowed their ancient pride and 
offered gifts and apologies for old slights. Many of the old 
treasures never returned to Egypt. Perhaps that is best for the 
clan. We will never be so vulnerable again.


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
25
In 1277, Baybars died. I wish I could say that the Followers 
of Set killed him. No, an Assamite did the deed, an assassin 
who had suffered the deaths of his mortal grandchildren when 
the Mamelukes sacked their village.
Some cultures and some clans would feel cheated. The 
Followers of Set did not. We are wiser than that; we do not 
care, so long as we get what we want. Many Setite cults cel-
ebrate Baybars’ death every year and honor the name of Vardar 
Vardarian, Childe of Haqim six times removed. I believe he is 
the only vampire in history to win a Life Boon from an entire 
clan, by order of the assembled Hierophants of Egypt. Tell 
that to vampires who say the Followers of Set have no honor.
I once attended the Burning of Baybars festival at the 
House of the Eclipse. I gained new pride for my clan when the 
acting Hierophant shaved a sliver from one of Baybars’ ribs and 
cast it into the fire. The wailing wraith of Baybars appeared 
above the brazier, wreathed in spectral flame! That night….
Some say that revenge is best served cold. Our parables say 
that revenge is best served forever…or at least for another thousand 
years, until the skeleton of Baybars is entirely consumed.
After the slave-king’s reign, the Mameluke Inquisition faded 
decade by decade. After 30 years, the Setites returned to Egypt 
and their temples. The Mamelukes busied themselves with foreign 
wars and domestic usurpations. Now and then they persecuted 
the Christians, a new activity in Egypt that made no difference 
to the Setites. The Followers of Set encouraged the Mamelukes 
in these distractions. Meanwhile, the clan’s network of temple 
couriers, merchants and spies encircled the Mediterranean and 
pushed farther into Africa, Europe and Asia. When the Ottoman 
Empire conquered the weakened Mamelukes in 1517, the Cult 
of Set had outlasted yet another enemy.
Dark Continent: 
The Setites in Europe
Even before the purge of Baybars, the Middle Eastern 
“holy wars” convinced the clan’s leaders that they must pay 
more attention to events beyond Egypt. Not every Setite leader 
argued for expanding Set’s war against other vampires. All 
but the most pacifistic Setites agreed, however, that Europe 
needed watching. If the European Kindred and kine remained 
fragmented and fighting among themselves, they would pose 
less danger to the Followers of Set.
I mentioned the Templars; they showed us the way. To 
support their war effort, the Templars gained great skill at 
moving money and supplies over long distances. This, and 
their tight internal discipline, made them Europe’s first in-
ternational bankers. A French knight could pawn his home 
to the Templars in Antioch, then redeem it in Sicily.
At the same time, mortal crusaders gained a taste for 
eastern luxuries such as silk and pepper. They carried these 
tastes back to Europe. Increasing numbers of merchants dared 
the long and dangerous journey to Palestine or Egypt, tempted 
by the enormous profits they could reap on their return.
Execration Litany
Burn! Burn! Bleed! Bleed!
Accursed be Baybars the slave.
Let the crocodiles of the black river gnaw on your bones.
Let the snakes of the black ocean coil around your bones.
Thou, slave who became king, we enslave again!
Enemy of the Followers of Set,
Enemy of the Childer of Set,
Let death not shield Baybars from vengeance!
The king is our slave, stolen from death.
Baybars is our slave, stolen from death.
Let the pain of Baybars endure forever!
Typhon Set, dark sire of our sires,
In Thy holy name we torment vile Baybars.
Servant of a false book,
Servant of a false god,
We burn your book!
We burn your god!
Baybars, your grave is empty.
Baybars, your ka goes hungry.
Baybars, your bones we defile.
Baybars, we curse you forever and ever!
When the Followers of Set decided to launch their own 
“crusade” against Europe, they combined a Templaresque 
network with trade in eastern luxuries. Setites and their ghouls 
traveled to the great trade fairs laden with silk and spices, in-
cense and jewels. Back east, they subverted certain European 
merchants and used them as pawns. Wealthy Europeans eagerly 
bought everything we sold, and then asked for more.
This gave the Setite merchants their opening. They 
offered to supply anything their wealthy clients desired. Did 
an up-and-coming merchant chafe at laws forbidding him 
to wear clothing above his station? His draper promised to 
discuss the matter with the local lord. Did a knight fret that 
a rival surpassed him at jousting? A vendor offered him a 
bear’s strength by means of a “rare and potent elixir” before a 
tournament. Even bishops confessed their desires: the “foreign 
merchant” who supplied incense to sanctify the church’s air 
could assist in winning benefices or obtaining relics of famous 
saints…or at least convincing imitations.
When a customer wanted something that one of our 
merchants could not supply at once, a ghoul servant rode to 
a clanmate in another town. Perhaps another family member 
had what the client desired. We established depots where 
their merchants could trade information and commissions. 
We appointed factors to manage their properties in their 
absence. Decade by decade, a vast trading network took shape.
Do not imagine this as a modern corporation. No single 
Hierophant, or even a committee, oversaw the network’s 
growth. Individual Followers of Set, however, collaborated 


Clanbook: Setite
26
more than they competed. They made more money by trading 
favors and fixing prices.
Many clients eventually came to depend on their “eastern 
merchant” friends for more than pretty clothes and tasty food. 
Even the clients who did not seek morally dubious or politically 
dangerous pleasures valued the news the Setites carried from far 
places, and their cunning advice. A Setite could demand favors 
in return: a too-perceptive priest silenced; a mortal business rival 
crushed; the plan for a coming war. Some few Europeans became 
dependent enough — or showed enough instinctive awareness 
of Set’s truths — that they earned initiation to the mysteries of 
the Dark God. Some learned the Lord of the Desert’s ways so 
well that they received the Embrace.
Bringing Europeans into the Cult and Clan of Set caused 
great controversy among the elders. The same Eternals who 
opposed spreading the clan through North Africa and the 
Middle East opposed this increased dilution of the clan’s 
“heritage.” Some people never learn.
Other Hierophants and Eternals countenanced the 
clan’s expansion. They took their lesson from the histories 
of Judaism, Christianity and Islam. A religion that clung to 
tribal roots remained small and oppressed. A religion that 
welcomed the gentiles as converts flourished and spread. 
Should not all the peoples of the world hear Set’s message?
As the Setite merchants spread through Europe, however, 
they discovered that the question was moot. Europe already 
held two cults and lineages of Set’s blood, established a 
thousand years before. Both cults Embraced Europeans; they 
could hardly have done otherwise.
The Cult of Typhon, you see, still survived in a few loca-
tions, celebrating the rites of Bacchus, Pluto and Mars. Some 
cult groups even persisted with no vampire to lead them. 
For instance, a letter from a Setite in 10th-century Venice 
mentions an all-mortal cult of Pluto called the Flamens of 
Dis, led by a family named DiGiovanni.
Most Typhonic cults quickly rejoined the cult of Set, 
and most Setites welcomed them back. Centuries later, when 
Europe’s intellectuals rediscovered Greco-Roman culture, the 
Cult of Typhon expanded rapidly and drew many Europeans 
to the ways of Set. To this night, at least a quarter of all Setites 
in Europe come from Typhonist roots.
The second cult and lineage proved more problematic.
The Cainite Heresy
The Setite merchants discovered other vampires with 
an interest in religion. These vampires saw curious parallels 
between undeath and certain aspects of Christian doctrine. For 
instance, they made much of the supposed incorruptibility of 
a saint’s flesh after death, and the power of vampire blood to 
hold back aging and confer supernatural powers upon mortals. 
They believed that Christ was a vampire, the “Second Caine,” 
or somehow connected to vampires. I will spare you the details 
of their tortuous theology; if you desire a full exposition, any 
Setite shrine can obtain one for a moderate price.
These vampires sought to spread their “Cainite Heresy” 
throughout the Roman Catholic Church. Some genuinely 
believed they brought the true doctrine to the mortals they 
seduced and enslaved. Others, no doubt, saw the Church and 
the Heresy simply as a convenient way to gather mortal herds.
Most Setite theologians merely studied the Cainite heresy. 
The second long-sundered branch of Set’s clan became part 
of it. These Setites led a cult, distinct from the rest of the 
Cainite Heresy, called the Church of the Black Magdalene. 
Somehow this Gnostic cult survived the centuries but lost 
contact with Egypt after Rome’s fall. They presented Setite 
dogma as the “true doctrine” transmitted from Christ to his 
13th apostle, Mary Magdalene.
Magdalenite doctrine differs from mainstream Christi-
anity on several points. According to the Magdalene Gospel, 
Christ’s ministry and sacrifice lifted the burden of original 
sin, but mortals take on sin anyway through the deceptions 
of the Aeons. The chief deceptions are Guilt and Law. The 
arch-Aeon Jehovah is the true Satan, the Accuser and God 
of This World. Satan-Jehovah plays both sides, the Tempter 
and the Punisher. He does not want people to understand that 
the deeds of the body have no impact on the soul’s salvation. 
Any act performed with love and joy is holy, though to the 
world it may seem a heinous crime. Any act performed in a 
spirit of hate or resentment is sin, no matter how meritorious 
it may seem. Thus the Magdalenites encourage mortals to act 
upon their desires, and ask Christ to forgive them until they 
can forgive themselves and, finally, cast off shame forever.
Magdalenites also emphasize the role of the female in 
salvation. As they point out, Christ was born of woman 
and passed on his secret teachings through a woman. In the 
Middle Ages, the Church particularly condemned women 
(and especially love of woman) as the fount of evil. The 
witch-hunts showed where that doctrine led.
Magdalenites particularly sought to persuade the religious 
to break vows of celibacy. They argued that a person who 
could not achieve a perfect and passionate union with another 
human being was hardly qualified to achieve a union with 
God. They also advocated free love and sexuality, because 
a soul that feels only Love accepts all other souls as equally 
beloved. To more conventional clerics, of course, Magdalenite 
churches and nunneries seemed like whorehouses. Hence, 
Magdalenites were required to exercise discretion in how 
much they let conventional clerics see.
As a final oddity, the Church of the Black Magdalene 
claimed that Christ fathered a child on the Apostle Mary, 
who had children of his own. The Holy Blood bore some 
ill-defined connection to the Merovingian dynasty of France 
and continued in secret, guarded by the Magdalenites. Some 
Magdalenite priests and priestesses said they were scions of 
Christ themselves. I know, dear friend, that you retain some 
attachment to Christian doctrine. Please do not condemn 
me if this offends you; I merely report Magdalenite beliefs, 
not condone them.


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
27
The Church of the Black Magdalene proved quite popular 
throughout the Middle Ages, its spread limited only by its need 
for secrecy. Most converts were women. Read the writings 
of the many female mystics from this period. Their visions 
of Christ and the Virgin sound suspiciously erotic. Consider, 
for instance, the words of the Blessed Angela of Foligno:
And I felt an ineffable divine sweetness…
“My daughter, sweet to me; my daughter, my beloved, my 
temple; my daughter, my beloved, love me, since you have been 
much loved by me, much more than you love me.
“And after I have laid myself in you, now lay yourself in me.
“This is my creature.”
The Church considered Angela orthodox enough to beatify 
her, but her ecstatic reveries differ little from those of Magdalenites 
who burned as heretics. As early as Dante Alighieri, the notion 
that love of woman could aid the soul in achieving love of God 
became quite respectable. After all, in the Divine Comedy it is 
his beloved Beatrice, not some stern priest, who leads Dante 
through Paradise and into the divine Presence.
In time, the Magdalenites might have radically altered 
the Catholic Church’s doctrines through sheer weight of con-
verts from within. Before that could happen, other vampires 
forced the Church’s hand and brought doom upon them all. 
The Middle Ages ended in fire, and the modern world was 
born in terror from its ashes.
The Anarch Revolt
The vampires of Europe did nothing to help Follow-
ers of Set who fled the purge of Baybars. No matter that 
these Setites fled the one who drove out the Crusaders and 
wrecked hopes for princedoms in Palestine. The Kindred 
who considered themselves Christians reviled us as Pagans. 
Many now-elder Nosferatu, Ventrue and Toreador from this 
period still despise us and call for our destruction. The true 
elders of that age cared less for religion, but they still turned 
away dark-skinned vampires who begged for refuge. Of all 
the emotions, pity is the first that the undead lose.
In the 14th century, Europe’s vampires became the ones 
who needed succor. They brought it on themselves, of course. 
The Cainite Heretics became too numerous and too powerful 
to hide themselves any longer. The Church struggled to purge 
itself of the vampires within its ranks. Each vampire detected 
and destroyed led to others, more and more vampires…not all 
of them in the Heresy’s ranks, either. By 1350, the Church’s 
various Inquisitions (the name encompassed several institu-
tions) made hunting vampires a major part of their job. Read 
the Church records from this time. Do you wonder how young 
women and old men withstood such horrendous tortures for 
so long? At least some of them were ghouls, striving not to 
betray their vampiric masters.
The Setites who oversaw the Church of the Black Mag-
dalene burned with the rest of the Cainite Heresy. Some of 
them escaped the Inquisition, though. The cult as a whole 
just barely survived. It renamed itself the Priory of the Black 
Magdalene in the 17th century. I understand that the Priory 
still claims to guard the descendants of Christ and preserve 
the bloodline through selective breeding. They have a lovely 
cathedral below Marseilles, but I don’t believe a word of it.
The Inquisitions truly threatened to exterminate every 
vampire in Christendom. The great, immortal “lords of the 
night” found themselves hunted like beasts. With each vam-
pire destroyed, the faith of the men who hunted them burned 
higher, making them even deadlier foes. Faced with invincible 
faith, the eldest vampires lost their nerve. Some of them, I 
know, turned to individual Followers of Set for help, Setites 
whom they scorned a century before. I note 11 documented 
instances of a Setite promising refuge…and ordering ghouls 
to deliver the day-sleeping elder to the local Inquisitor. Six 
other elders, carefully staked through the heart and dissected, 
grace various Setite temples; pardon me if I do not list their 
names or locations. I can hardly fault them. 
Most elders, however, tried to fight back against their 
human hunters. They could not accept the need to hide from 
their prey. They commanded their childer to counter-attack 
the Inquisitors, or dressed them in their garb to meet Final 
Death as decoys. After a few decades of this, the elders’ childer 
came to resent their usage as cannon-fodder (or rather stake-
torch-and-beheading-fodder). When a group of Tzimisce 
vampires (themselves elders by most reckoning, but enslaved 
to even older monsters) discovered how to break the blood 
oaths that forced them to serve, quite naturally they rebelled. 
By 1400, a three-way war between Inquisition, elders and the 
self-proclaimed “anarch” vampires raged through Europe. As 
a further complication, the murderous Assamites allied with 
the rebels. They cared nothing for the anarchs’ grievances, 
but they saw an opportunity to diablerize Europe’s elders as 
their peculiar faith demanded.
Many vampires know how that war ended. Most European 
vampires agreed to a code of minimum cooperation needed 
to preserve the Masquerade. These became the Camarilla. 
The few who refused reconciliation became the Sabbat. 
The Followers of Set remained independent, although the 
elders who founded the Camarilla asked Europe’s Setites to 
join. They even extended the invitation to the Founding 
Temples in Egypt.
I have spoken with more than a hundred Camarilla 
vampires about their sect’s origin. Not one in ten knew 
about the invitation to my clan. None of them knew why 
we refused. For that matter, they did not know why we were 
asked in the first place. The Camarilla’s founders did not ask 
the nascent Giovanni clan to join; indeed, they insisted that 
the Necromancers remain outside and neutral. Nor did they 
invite Europe’s Ravnos to join.
The role my clan played in the Anarch Revolt and its 
aftermath is one of the better-kept secrets of the undead. At 
first, few Followers of Set cared which side triumphed in the 
Anarch Revolt. The Hierophants certainly did not; they advised 
Europe’s Setites to follow our well-known, even-handed custom 


Clanbook: Setite
28
of playing both sides. A Setite brood might sell its aid to a gang 
of anarchs; then turn and sell knowledge of the anarchs to the 
elders. Setites from that time frankly told me that they hoped the 
anarchs and elders would destroy each other completely. Some 
of these Setites saw the other clans’ extermination as Set’s will, 
part of our founder’s war against their founders. Others simply 
wanted revenge for personal insults.
That policy changed when the Assamites entered the war. 
Europe’s vampires merely spat at Setites. The Assamites fought 
us for millennia, directly and through the mortal empires and 
faiths they championed. The Hierophants agreed that the 
Assamites would surely defeat whatever side won the long war 
of attrition. They decreed in council that the Followers of Set 
must help the elders, while preserving a façade of neutrality. In 
the last 20 years of the Anarch Revolt, most Followers of Set 
withdrew into hiding from Europe’s other vampires. Secretly, 
they passed information about the anarchs to a few warlords 
of the elders, and passed disinformation that led anarch bands 
into traps. More importantly, my clan drew a secret net around 
the Assamites’ stronghold of Alamut.
The true Alamut is not the ruined fortress you may 
read about in history books. The true Alamut is immensely 
older and hidden so that no mortal could ever find it. The 
Followers of Set, of course, uncovered its location centuries 
before the Anarch Revolt.
Thus, while Europe’s elders beat down their rebellious childer, 
the Setites passed information about the Assamites’ blood-sorcerers 
to the Tremere and assisted them in developing rituals to block 
the Assamites’ sendings. Others of my clan established blood cults 
along the routes to Alamut, that the nascent Camarilla’s army 
might find sustenance. They discovered the keys to the mystic 
wards that hid Alamut from the world. When the bulk of the 
anarchs surrendered, Setites guided a host of Europe’s elders to 
Alamut’s door. I wish I could have been there, when the Lords of 
the Tremere called lightning to scatter Alamut’s hosts and Menele 
of the Brujah shook the earth as he broke down Alamut’s granite 
doors. I am told those great slabs remain where they fell to this 
night, as a reminder against pride.
The elders of the Camarilla keep no records of the Setites’ 
help against the Assamites, at least none they show to their 
childer. The Setites who were there documented it all, however, 
and wrote their memories into stone, that my clan might read 
and remember forever. I find much about my clan aggravating, 
but I have also felt Assamite pride and wrath. The humbling of 
Alamut makes me proud to call myself a childe of Set.
Now you too know what could impel the Camarilla’s 
founders to put aside their bigotries and offer the Followers 
of Set a place at the Camarilla’s table. The Camarilla would 
have had an eighth clan, had the Hierophants accepted their 
offer. Bigotry and grievances, however, work both ways. Join-
ing the Camarilla would mean renouncing Set’s war against 
the clan founders who betrayed him, and that they could not 
do — at least, that’s what the elders say.


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
29
Nevertheless, a few among my kind believe that we do 
possess some hold over the Camarilla. Some say that the 
entire sect owes the Followers of Set a gigantic, collective 
Life Boon: that the Hierophants of Egypt have the right to 
demand anything from the Inner Circle, once. Others say 
that one Hierophant secretly attends each meeting of the 
Inner Circle, or that the Camarilla’s leaders secretly consult 
certain Eternals when they face a problem or mystery they 
cannot solve. I doubt all such rumors. I do not believe the 
Methuselahs of the Inner Circle can muster that much honor, 
or the humility to admit when they could use our help.
Thus ended the Anarch Revolt, and the Age of Faith 
with it. In its zeal to destroy all vampires, witches and other 
servants of Satan, the Church did not care how many in-
nocents it slew along the way. In truth, most mortals would 
confess to anything the Inquisitor wanted to hear, just to 
end the torture. As vampires mastered the Masquerade, the 
Inquisitors found fewer and fewer vampires. They did not stop, 
though. Witch-hunting became a highly profitable business 
for bishop and burgomaster alike: They could confiscate the 
assets of anyone convicted. When the Inquisition devolved 
into a morass of self-delusion and naked greed, its power of 
faith evaporated as well. Certain pious and fanatical priests 
and nuns still hunt vampires, but Holy Mother Church does 
not sanction them, or even believe that we exist.
Modern Problems
After the Anarch Revolt, the Setites of Europe retreated 
into the shadows. No matter how much our zealots speak of 
“war on the betrayers of Set,” we really prefer peace and the 
slow, patient acquisition of power.
This, I believe, is the real reason why my clan never joined 
the Camarilla — not some mythical war begun thousands 
of years ago. Most of the anarchs accepted the fledgling Ca-
marilla’s amnesty, but the Lasombra and Tzimisce remained 
hostile. Joining the Camarilla would mean committing to a 
war without end. Our elders remembered the lessons of the 
Crusades and remained neutral. That way, we can sell our 
services to both sides; or if a Setite so chooses, lead vampires 
of either sect to wisdom or destruction. If a vampire of one 
sect becomes too dangerous, a Setite can call on vampires of 
the other sect to destroy him.
The ancient Hierophants also accepted that they could 
never drive Islam from Egypt, nor make Egypt master of the 
world. Indeed, what would Egyptian independence really 
mean, when the culture the Hierophants championed had 
died 1500 years before? No formal council ratified a “clan 
policy” to this effect, but every Setite who existed in this 
period remembers the intense discussions about the matter. 
Three of the Hierophants never did admit that they could 
not reverse history. Instead they retreated to their tombs and 
sleep to this night. As the Eternal Nakhthorheb said, “I shall 
wake when my Father calls me — not before.”
Thus, when the Ottoman Empire conquered Egypt in 
1517, the Followers of Set neither welcomed nor opposed 
them. They merely studied the new regime, to find how best 
to exploit it when possible and to avoid it otherwise.
The Ottoman Yoke
Fortunately for the Setites, the Ottoman government 
was ideal for exploitation and intrigue. Although a viceroy 
sent from Istanbul ruled in name, the Mamelukes preserved 
a powerful role in the military and government. This bizarre 
ruling class continued to propagate itself by purchasing slave 
boys and raising them as soldiers. After their period of service, 
some slave-soldiers moved into civil government. The constant 
tension between the Turkish soldiers and bureaucrats and 
their Mameluke counterparts provided many opportunities for 
subversion. A Turkish minister who found a Mameluke rival 
too obstructive could count on a Follower of Set offering to 
help…as could the Mameluke. The slave-soldiers themselves 
engaged in drawn-out factional struggles and gladly accepted 
help from any source — even a blood-drinking Pagan demon.
Mortal historians do not treat the Ottoman Empire kindly, 
and neither will I. Their rule stultified Egypt, the Balkans, Syria 
and all the rest of their territories. Before the Ottoman yoke, 
the Middle East held a civilization as dynamic as anything in 
Europe. Cairo and Baghdad both hosted great universities. The 
arts and sciences flourished. For all its militaristic, factional 
faults, the Mameluke regime supported a sparkling intellectual 
life — especially historians, my own profession. Under Otto-
man rule, Egypt produced only one great historian (and he 
had Napoleon as his subject) and no great art, architecture, 
literature or science. To a great degree, the Middle East is part 
of the “Third World” because of four centuries of Ottoman rule.
The Ottoman Empire held the worst sort of Maat: order 
without grace, grandeur or even efficiency, merely bureaucracy 
— and savage retribution for anyone who rebelled or failed 
to pay their taxes. Michael the Archangel would have wept 
blood-tears to see his beloved Constantinople become Istan-
bul, the capital of such a leaden empire. Perhaps, however, 
I am biased. I remember the Ottoman Empire only from its 
last century, when it became a tottering wreck that survived 
through sheer bulk.
The Followers of Set did play a role in transforming 
the Ottoman Empire from the feared besieger of Vienna to 
the “Sick Man of Europe.” Yes, we seduced, corrupted and 
enslaved Ottoman officials and nobles. We did not, however, 
try to destroy the Empire through subversion. For 400 years 
— right up to World War One — the Middle Eastern Setites 
carefully protected the Ottoman Empire through its decay 
into graft and incompetence. Who would want the Ottomans 
replaced by some more dynamic and dangerous state? On a 
few occasions, Setite influence even saved the Empire from 
disaster by silencing aggressive pashas or viziers who did not 
know when to cut their losses.
Throughout the modern centuries, however, the Middle 
Eastern Setites did fight one war despite all their attempts at 


Clanbook: Setite
30
peace. The Assamites were my clan’s greatest vampiric rivals 
since Pharaonic times. They never forgave the Followers of Set 
for guiding the Camarilla to Alamut. The Assamites fought 
the Followers of Set like the Sabbat fights the Camarilla: 
everything from wild assaults on Setite temples to subtle 
schemes to neutralize our mortal pawns.
Your colleagues in the Camarilla tend to regard Assamites 
as nothing but professional killers (or, after their recent libera-
tion from the Tremere’s curse, cannibal maniacs). I fear the 
Camarilla is in for a shock when it discovers the full range of 
Assamite talents, as they surely must in this global age. I give 
you this warning…but I feel no obligation to the rest of the 
Camarilla. I bear little enough love for my clan, but neither 
the Camarilla nor the Sabbat ever gave me any reason to 
prefer them. Let them learn about the Assamites the hard way.
When both sects have suffered a few shocking losses to 
the Assassins, I expect that Camarilla princes and Sabbat 
bishops will receive offers of help from local Followers of Set. 
They will, of course, suspect a cunning plan to buy their souls. 
They will, of course, be right. They will, of course, accept the 
Setites’ help anyway. I know my clan.
Enough of current politics.
In Europe, meanwhile, the contrast to the Ottoman East 
could not have been greater. As the bloated Empire stagnated, 
the many contending states of Europe moved from strength 
to strength. By fighting each other, they learned how to de-
feat the rest of the world. European scholars graduated from 
copying Greece and Rome to bold experiments of their own. 
The West arose to amaze and terrify the world.
The Followers of Set saw it all from the inside. As much 
as any vampire clan, the Serpents participated in the secret 
history of the Enlightenment.
Age of Light and Darkness
After the Renaissance came the so-called Age of Reason. 
Western mortals like to think of the 16th, 17th and 18th 
centuries as a time of progress. In these centuries, Europeans 
explored the world, advanced the arts and had a variety of 
revolutions: Political, scientific and industrial. This was the 
age of Descartes and Voltaire.
Behind the palace-lined boulevards and Bach fugues, 
however, boiled a witch’s cauldron of secret societies, occultism 
and debauchery. The upper class of England applauded the 
easy verses of Pope and the mannered wit of Fielding, then 
adjourned to revel in drunken lust at the Hellfire Clubs. In 
France, Madame de Montespan commissioned Black Masses 
with infant sacrifice first to draw the King’s love, then to kill 
him. Few remember that the arch-scientist Newton spent 
more time studying alchemy than gravity. The Followers of 
Set flourished in “Enlightened” Europe.
For every pioneering scientist, the Age of Reason also 
produced two or three self-proclaimed sorcerers — from 
a squalid little trickster called Doctor Faustus to Cardinal 
Richelieu, architect of the French monarchy. In less than 200 
years, Europeans went from burning sorcerers to feting them 
at court. The 18th century saw numerous adventurers like 
the “Count” St. Germaine, who added occult pretensions to 
their self-bestowed titles and courtly manners. Some suggest 
that St. Germaine was a vampire. I cannot say, as I never met 
the man. I hear that at least one vampire used the name after 
the soi-disant Count’s official death. If the “real” St. Germaine 
was a Cainite, he is the only one who ever won a royal grant 
for devising a laxative tea.
The Grand Copht
The two most famous courtly adventurers, however, were 
surely Count Alessandro Cagliostro and Giacomo Casanova. 
The former, I am pleased to call a fellow Setite. The latter was 
not, but should have been. Of Casanova I need say little; his 
name has become proverbial. I shall merely add that Casanova’s 
achievements included a “cabala” used both for fortune-telling 
and writing secret messages; and that his escape from the In-
quisition prevented his Embrace. He died still mortal, though 
not from lack of effort by my clan and at least two others.
Cagliostro dazzled the courts of Europe with his magical 
powers: alchemical diamonds, a healing touch, evocation of 
spirits and more. He called himself the “Grand Copht,” pupil 
of the Egyptian magus Althotas. Rumors of scandal and fraud 
pursued Cagliostro. Eventually a yellow-rag journalist (and 
convicted blackmailer) declared that Count Cagliostro was 
actually Giuseppe Balsamo, a petty thug from Sicily. The 
Count collapsed. He would not dispute the charges. Under 
pressure, his wife confirmed them and abandoned him. As far 
as the world knew, Giuseppe Balsamo, not the Grand Copht, 
died in the Inquisition’s dungeons in 1795.
A group of Setites faked Balsamo’s death and smuggled 
him out of prison. The Grand Copht was something of an 
experiment, in the spirit of My Fair Lady. The Setite coterie, 
who used “Althotas” as a collective pseudonym, wagered 
another coterie that they could turn any man into the toast 
of Europe. Althotas supplied a variety of talismans and spells 
to supplement the minor magic Balsamo learned as a ghoul. 
More importantly, they twisted Balsamo’s mind inside-out. 
He truly believed he was the Grand Copht.
Althotas did not want to rescue Balsamo. They won their 
bet, but they considered their creation a failure in the end. 
Their own Hierophant, Shemti of the Crocodile Temple, 
demanded that they cover their tracks before Balsamo could 
reveal Setite secrets to the Inquisition. The Hierophant 
Shemti himself restored the Cagliostro personality and 
Embraced him. The Grand Copht now presides over one 
of Europe’s leading temples to Set. We consider him a great 
magician of our clan.
Secret Societies, Shadow Wars
In life, our creature Cagliostro did more than play tricks 
to amuse bored aristocrats. He also founded his own order 
of Freemasonry, the Egyptian Rite, in 1784. Throughout the 
Age of Half-Reason, Europe’s educated men joined Masonic 
groups and other mystical or fraternal groups. The civic and 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
31
religious authorities rightly feared that these semi-secret so-
cieties could become hotbeds of revolutionary thought. That 
is precisely why the Followers of Set wanted to walk among 
them! The men who joined these orders expected layers of 
mystery and initiation; the Setites hoped to give them dif-
ferent lessons than they expected and teach the Revelations 
of Set to Europe’s free-thinking intellectuals.
Other groups meddled with the Masons as well. The 
Tremere began delving into Freemasonry long before us. So 
did a confusing array of mortal magi; I expect we shall never 
know in full who worked for which faction and what they 
wanted. My colleague and clanmate Senbi MacGregor spent 
more than a century disentangling the occult conspiracies of 
the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Last year he told me 
that he was close to discovering the true master behind one 
of the factions. Two weeks later he burned all his books and 
notes and haven, with himself still inside.
The secret societies themselves multiplied like Caitiff: 
Guerinets, the German Union, Philadelphes, Charbon-
nierres — more than I could hope to name. The Followers 
of Set knew, however, that the ranks of conspiracy included 
our ancient enemies, the Society of Aton. They still sought 
to bind the world in an unbreakable, supernatural Law in 
the name of divine Light. This time they called themselves 
the Ancient Illuminated Seers of Bavaria — the Illuminati.
The kine will never know the secret and sorcerous battles 
fought nightly in the last quarter of the 18th century. The 
Setites within the Egyptian Rite Lodge blunted the efforts of 
the Atonists; Cagliostro also drew out the vampire dominators 
of several ghouled noblemen. On the other hand, the Illumi-
nated Ones achieved several victories the full implications 
of which the Followers of Set still strive to grasp.
One victory, I’m sorry to say, is the foundation of your own 
United States of America. Mortal historians have adequately 
traced the role of the Illuminati and Masonic societies in 
your nation’s early history. I will only say that the Illuminati 
showed great arrogance when they made the ancient symbol 
of the Atonists, the Eye in the Pyramid, the Great Seal of 
the United States. Annuit coeptis novus ordo seclorum: Now 
Begins the New Order of the Ages. Not if the Followers of 
Set can prevent it!
Many among my clan fear the “world’s only superpower” 
more than the Antediluvians. They see the United States 
as the Aeons’ final and most powerful gambit to seduce 
and fetter the human soul forever. Myself, I do not know. I 
remember the excitement I felt as a mortal student, reading 
about revolution across the Atlantic. American power — 
military, political and financial — clearly serves the Aeons’ 
goals. American culture, however, tells a different story. Its 
music and cinema celebrate freedom, lust, impulse, rage and 
emotion. America’s heart belongs to Set.
Egyptomania
Egypt fascinated Europeans from the night they learned 
anything about it. In the Middle Ages, Europeans knew almost 
nothing about Egypt. Travelers such as Sir John Mandeville 
thought that the Pyramids were grain-byres from the biblical 
story of Joseph. When Europeans rediscovered Greek and 
Roman writers such as Plutarch and Herodotus, they also 
glimpsed a civilization that the ancients considered ancient. 
Merchants brought back stories of pyramids and obelisks. 
Rich men built imitation ruins in their gardens; sometimes 
mock-Egyptian became the fad of the year.
Napoleon Bonaparte must be history’s greatest Egypto-
maniac. Why cross the Mediterranean to conquer Egypt in 
1798? The Caesars did it; Alexander did it; so Napoleon had 
to do it too. To legitimize his adventure, Napoleon brought 
along a battalion of scholars. The French collected every 
antiquity that they could carry off, and sketched whatever 
they could not.
Of course, the French still could not read any of the 
inscriptions or manuscripts. Scholars had to guess what they 
said. Some Setites disgraced their lineage through childish 
impostures, posing as “the Sage of the Pyramids,” telling amaz-
ing lies to naive Europeans and laughing behind their backs. 
When Champollion deciphered the Rosetta Stone, the new 
knowledge put a stop to some of that, at least. For the first 
time in 1500 years, the Setites no longer had a monopoly on 
Egypt’s lore…lore potentially including the clan’s own secrets.
Great Britain helped the Turks take back Egypt, but Britain 
and France both meddled in Egyptian politics throughout the 
19th century. Curious Europeans puttered around the Land of 
the Pharaohs, copying artwork, digging up tombs and looting 
bits to take home as souvenirs. Architects built jails in “Egyptian 
Revival” style because they thought it looked properly severe.
When Howard Carter discovered Tutankhamun’s tomb, 
the craze for all things Egyptian flared to its greatest height. 
Mortals bought mock-Egyptian jewelry, clothing, furniture 
and wallpaper. Vampires were no more immune than the kine. 
I believe the looped cross became fashionable at this time; I 
do not recall seeing vampires wear it before then. I’m afraid 
we Setites found it all very peculiar. We actually became 
fashionable. A Toreador social was not complete without a 
Follower of Set, suitably robed and accoutered with priestly 
staff and ghoul serpent, to speak about the Dreadful Mysteries 
of the Dark God. If real Setites were not available, you could 
usually find an impostor. A number of Setite elders placed 
themselves in torpor out of sheer disgust.
The Egyptian fad returned in the 1970s when the Egyp-
tian government sent the King Tut exhibit on a worldwide 
tour. The mania never completely ended, and I suspect it 
never will. That does not please some members of my clan.
The Setites of Egypt constantly worry about archaeolo-
gists. The old Followers of Set left rather dramatic evidence 


Clanbook: Setite
32
of themselves, from scrolls to massive subterranean temples. 
For the sake of the Masquerade, we must hide it all. The 
elders fear that some mortal will discover a minor temple, 
abandoned and forgotten in a war or purge long ago.
This very nearly happened when Sir W. M. Flinders 
Petrie excavated Tanis in 1885. Over the centuries, ruined 
Tanis slowly rose from Lake Manzala. A group of Setites 
frantically tried to relocate the relentless Petrie’s dig with-
out revealing themselves, while others tried tunneling into 
the long-lost tombs of the sleeping Eternals. Petrie and 
his laborers won…but to our amazement, the crypts were 
empty. Did someone else dig into Tanis and destroy the six 
Eternals of Tanis centuries ago? Did the Eternals make their 
own escape and, for some reason, not pass the word on to 
their brethren? I don’t know.
My clanmates still post ghoul agents within every major 
dig in Egypt, but that might not be enough. If a construction 
company should dig into a temple while laying a town’s 
new sewer line — well, I do not know what we would do. 
The Egyptian elders had better work on their obfuscatory 
plans soon, though. In May of 2000, archeologists found the 
sunken remains of three more Nile Delta cities that sank 
with Tanis but did not resurface. Clan chronicles say that 
Herakleion, Canopus and Menouthis all held minor shrines 
to Set. Those shrines must be nearly intact, though buried 
in mud. Sooner or later, the archeologists will find them.
On the other hand, Followers of Set have exploited 
mortal hunger for “Egyptian mysteries.” Many a Setite re-
cruits mortal vessels, servants or even childer by promising 
to reveal “Secrets of the Pharaohs.” Egypt’s potent glamour 
is itself a commodity for the Followers of Set. By now, more 
Setites pretend to be Egyptian than actually come from that 
country. Our elders may wince at pyramid-shaped hotels and 
silly songs about King Tut, but we market our reputation for 
uncanny lore and power as crassly as any Cairo shopkeeper 
who swindles a tourist with a phony scarab.
Reconnections
The 19th century saw more than the start of Egypt’s 
newfound popularity. It was also the high point of European 
colonialism. The New World freed itself through the revo-
lutions of Washington, Bolivar and Toussaint l’Ouverture, 
but the British and French cemented their grip on Africa 
and Asia. Portugal, Belgium and the Netherlands still held 
significant territories as well. European vampires followed 
European mortals, like them seeking new opportunities for 
wealth and power in ancient lands newly conquered — and 
like them brashly confident that they represented the high 
point of civilization. They thought the rest of the world con-


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
33
sisted of primitive savages and decadent, outworn empires, 
benighted heathens all who needed the white man’s god and 
the white man’s rule.
Most Western vampires now forget that vampires from 
the colonies journeyed in the opposite direction, traveling 
from Africa, India or other colonial regions to the great cities 
of Europe and the Americas. Mortals found the proliferation 
of Chinatowns, Little Arabies and other ethnic enclaves 
frightening enough. Princes who had never left Europe in 
500 years found the foreign vampires incomprehensible. The 
newcomers did not recognize the Camarilla, the Sabbat or 
even the myth of Caine. They followed creeds, alliances and 
enmities of their own.
Either way, vampires from every part of the world met 
each other for the first time. The Followers of Set were no 
exception. Chiefly by way of London, we spread in our last 
diaspora. Unlike the other clans, we deliberately cultivated 
our long-lost cousins. I cannot say that every meeting was 
peaceful, or that we emerged as a united, worldwide clan; but 
I think we have warmer relations with our far-flung kin than 
any other clan has achieved.
Setites of Africa
The main clan never fully abandoned the Followers of 
Set who spread through sub-Saharan Africa, but the lines of 
communication remained extremely sporadic until the 19th 
century. Africa’s deserts, jungles, mountains and rivers — and, 
I understand, beasts that walk as men — make it the most 
difficult of all the continents to cross. When European slavers, 
Arab pirates and nomadic tribes disrupted the caravans of 
gold and ivory, the Egyptian Setites completely lost track of 
their southern kin for about 200 years. In the 19th century, 
however, colonialists — especially the British — built railroads 
into the interior. The elders of Egypt sent envoys to check 
on the cults in Africa.
They found the African cults greatly fallen from our 
loose standards of orthodoxy. Younger African Setites did 
not even know Set’s name. They ascribed their genesis to 
various native gods. They did not learn the Setite philosophy 
of wisdom through degradation, pain and deceit. The many 
scattered cults forgot the clan’s roots in Egypt even as they 
forgot each other.
Personally, I find the African “Setites” no worse than any 
other vampires, in or out of my clan. I do not think they lose 
much through their ignorance of Theophidian doctrine. North 
African, European and American Setites now send missionar-
ies to the poor, benighted Black Africans with all the zeal of 
any Jesuit or Methodist. The Africans do not seem to show 
much interest in rejoining their parent clan. In my last journey 
through Africa, I did find some of these semi-Setites hoping 
for a pan-African union of their scattered, sub-Saharan tribes.
Daitya
The Setite community in India dates back to Alexander’s 
invasion. After the collapse of the Greco-Indian kingdom of 
Bactria and renewed Assamite hostility, though, the temples 
of Egypt could not communicate with their eastern scions. 
The Indian Setites went their own way for a full 2000 years. 
In the colonial age, they followed mortal Indian laborers to 
Africa, South America, Great Britain and other places. They 
and we rediscovered each other more or less at the same time.
They call themselves the Daitya, taking the name of 
legendary Indian demons. They know nothing of Set; they 
worship Shiva, the god of destruction, wisdom and storms. 
Other vampires of India consider them Brahmins, the priestly 
caste of their kind. Unlike we of the West, who slink through 
the night and shroud ourselves in deceit, the Daitya walk the 
night proudly and their Kindred accord them honor.
The Daitya do not submit to the elder temples in Egypt. 
They do not accept Set as the prototype for their Shiva. 
They demand treatment as an equal and separate clan. Our 
Hierophants have not officially granted their requests, but 
their word has no power over the Daitya. Indeed the Daitya 
Sundervere — dubbed the “Devil Brahmin” by the British 
Kindred he very nearly destroyed — proved that the Daitya 
include elders and sorcerers as potent as our own.
On the other hand, no one can reasonably deny that the 
Daitya are our kin. They too wield our serpentine Discipline 
and feel the Sun’s wrath with special force. They impersonate 
gods and lure other vampires and mortals into blasphemy and 
debauchery. Their elders fully match our own in arrogance 
as well as power.
I should like to learn more about the Daitya, their history 
and their beliefs — some night. For now, I find the Western 
Setites quite enough to fill my time.
Tlacique
The New World holds broods of African Setites and 
Western Setites. In the last 30 years I also uncovered old tales 
and new rumors of Native American vampires who might be a 
hidden, long-lost Setite lineage. Memoirs by European Kindred 
who participated in the sacking of the Incan, Aztec and other 
New World kingdoms tell of vampires who openly ruled cities 
as gods, commanding entire empires as gigantic blood cults. 
These “Tlacique” wielded powers of hypnotic awe, conceal-
ment and disguise like our own. They claimed descent from 
Tezcatlipoca — the Aztec god of night, war and sorcery — or 
from some analogous god. They lacked our powers of serpentine 
metamorphosis, instead wielding the more miscellaneous Protean 
powers of the Gangrel; this alone makes me hesitate to label the 
Tlacique as springing from the lineage of Set.
Unfortunately, I cannot find any records from the Tla-
cique themselves. They warred against both the Camarilla 
and Sabbat, and apparently the Sabbat almost wiped them 
out. Meanwhile, horrified churchmen burned all the Aztec, 
Incan and Mayan records they could find, seeking to expunge 
forever a religion they considered a bloody worship of Satan.
If the Tlacique exist as more than rumor, very few of 
them must survive in modern nights. I do not wonder that 


Clanbook: Setite
34
they would hide from all other vampires. The Followers of 
Set, however, would probably welcome them as fellow childer 
of the Dark God. Perhaps some high priests and Hierophants 
already negotiate with the Tlacique but have not told the 
rest of the clan. We Serpents are as good at finding secrets 
as keeping them. I cannot believe the Tlacique could hide 
from a determined search by our elders.
Setites in America
The old slave trade resulted in secondary offshoot tribes 
of African Setites in the Caribbean and in South America. 
These were actually the first Followers of Set to reach the 
New World. I do not know why the African Setites followed 
their mortal kin across the Atlantic. In recent decades, many 
claim that their sires came to “avenge the crimes against their 
people.” I can find no evidence of this fable before 1950, so 
I do not believe it. Did the African Setites simply want a 
share in the plantation profits? Did they fear the slaves mov-
ing beyond the cult’s reach? I suspect that many fled more 
powerful enemies in Africa, but I cannot yet document this 
suspicion. Until the 19th century, these Afro-American 
Setites had even less contact with the parent clan than their 
cousins who remained in Africa.
Other Setites came to America along with more willing im-
migrants from Europe, the Middle East and all the world. Some 
cults moved en masse, fleeing hostile Cainites or civil authori-
ties. Most of these Setites and their cults settled in the teeming 
industrial cities of the East Coast and the Midwest. The Red 
Hook Temple in New York City, for instance, was founded in 
1893 as a daughter temple of Alexandria’s Typhoeum.
Many of these Eastern Setites were young: neonates or 
junior ancillae hoping to win glory by carrying the Cult of 
Set to new venues. Other young Setites lacked religious zeal 
and traveled west to escape the disapproval of their elders. 
Many of these junior Setites prefer the commercial aspect 
of our clan to its scholarship or the faith in the Dark God. I 
sympathize with their desire to work for themselves instead 
of the Dark God (or a Hierophant who claims to have met 
him). On the other hand, sometimes I tire of other vampires 
assuming I peddle narcotics or run a string of whores.
Only since World War Two have older Setites from the 
Eastern and North African cults ventured to the Americas. 
Some New World Setites honor them as teachers and superior 
initiates. Others chafe at elders who waltz in to take control of 
their temple, or who exhort them to greater piety. My clan’s 
faith is not gentle; a lesson from a Setite elder shakes the soul 
to its roots. Tremble at the thought of an elder considering 
you a promising student.
The Setite cult called the Cohort of Wepwawet at-
tempted more than missionary work. In the 1970s and 80s, 
the Wepwawetans tried to force errant New World Setites 
back into their idea of orthodoxy. They especially disapproved 
of the Afro-Caribbean Setites, who had all but forgotten 
Set’s existence. The Caribbean Setites fought back and 
eventually turned to the Sabbat for protection. They now 
call themselves the Serpents of the Light and seek the parent 
clan’s destruction. Their hope is vain, but all vampires seem 
prone to impossible vendettas. Our missionaries and theirs 
now strive to win the allegiance of the other African Setite 
communities in South America.
The Genocide Century
My fellow historians propose many themes to sum up the 
departed 20th century. I choose genocide, that ugly word that the 
20th century had to invent. The century began with campaigns of 
starvation and massacre against the Armenians and the American 
Indians. It ended with ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.
When I lived, I could not imagine that humans could 
commit such deeds. Surely no one would ever equal the 
savage massacres of the Assyrians or the Mongols. We had 
progressed. I leave the 20th century with one consolation: 
The mad dictators were not my clan’s fault. The Followers 
of Set did not guide their hands. I know this. I watched what 
my clanmates did, and to whom, throughout the century.
Some of the 20th century’s cruel ideologies do resemble 
Theophidian doctrines. The warriors within my clan would 
endorse the Nazis’ creed of all-triumphant Will. Mao, Stalin, 
Pol Pot and that odious little German all tried to wrench their 
societies inside out and erase their past. They tried to do to 
their nations what Theophidian priests do to individuals. Like 
many Setites, the dictators made themselves worshipped as gods.
Two great differences, however, separate the dictators 
from the Followers of Set.
First, they tried to regiment their people more completely 
than any despot or cleric of the past could ever dream. I saw 
the Nuremberg rallies with my own eyes. Believe me: Fascism, 
Communism and Nationalism drug and delude the mind more 
than Christianity or Islam ever did. The State is the most 
terrible god the world has ever seen. The Aztecs’ bloody faith 
cannot equal its hecatombs. The dictators rebelled against 
old codes, only to install new ones.
Second, the totalitarian creeds were all puritanical. They 
despised the free flow of passion and the pursuit of pleasure. Men 
and women must come together to breed workers and soldiers, 
they said. They exalted battle-fever as their favored drug. May 
I offer this in my clan’s defense: Even our most deluded and 
exploited initiates experience pleasure, however fleeting.
Dictators also drag their countries into futile, overreach-
ing wars. Sometimes they fight their neighbors; often they 
fight their own population. I hope I have convinced you that 
the Followers of Set are not that stupid. A government run 
by Setites — an amusing thought, eh? — would bow before 
its enemies, then drown them in honey, wine and cream.
The anarchy and warlords of the Third World disturb 
me more. I see militias in Sierra Leone and East Timor. These 
soldiers drink or drug themselves into madness and run wild, 
raping or hacking off limbs from sheer delight in cruelty — 


Chapter One: A History Of Lies
35
and I think of my clan’s bloodier rites. I visit clanmates in 
Colombia and find them commanding private armies from 
coca plantation haciendas.
The cities of Europe and Asia bother me most of all. In 
them, I see young people lust and rage and revel with aban-
don. The Aeons do not chain their minds. Why, then, do I 
see such despair in their eyes? That is why I cannot believe 
what the Theophidians preach.
Jubilee
The Aeons enfold us. Massive bureaucracies of govern-
ment and commerce strangle the world. Yet no one loves this 
new web of Maat. Its own alphabet-soup acolytes of WTO 
and IMF apologize to the frightened people who riot against 
them and plead for understanding.
Every Setite elder I know agrees that it has never been easier 
to draw mortals into the cults of Set. Some think it is too easy. 
They say that a person who does not pledge himself to Set with 
anguish in his heart can never truly understand the Dark God’s 
revelations. Be that as it may.… The world seems more ready for 
Set than at any previous time in the last two thousand years.
A curious rumor circulates through the clan. Each one of 
us heard it from someone else. No one knows who began the 
tale, and I have sought its origin since it began three years ago.
The rumor says that Set’s time has come. The Dark God 
will walk the Earth once more, and we will hear him thunder in 
the sky. Then the temples will all throw open their doors. The 
Mesu Bedshet will no longer hide, but instead call the world 
to Set’s altar. The faithful must gather all their power — all 
their cults and informants, acolytes and minions and magic — 
for when the Dark God calls them to war against the Aeons.
They say he will return at Ombos, rebuilt at last after 
Baybars destroyed it.
I go to Ombos. Call it a pilgrimage of doubt. If the temple 
remains long-buried and abandoned, I know that the rumor is 
merely a rumor. The Cainites are certainly full of wild tales. 
The latest concerns an alleged mass suicide among the Rav-
nos clan. Why should we be more immune to hysteria than 
they? If I find other Setites working to rebuild the temple, 
perhaps I can learn something more definite. Perhaps I can 
even resolve some of my doubts, one way or another, and 
decide what to do with my heritage of forbidden wisdom and 
layered superstition.
I hope I will return to find you well, and your anger cooled.
Josué Pagnol
a.k.a. Manetho the Younger
The Call to Ombos
I walk the sands of Egypt, ancient homeland of my clan. 
Ombos looks the same as the last time I was here: Mounds of 
earth, a few toppled columns and fragments of wall, nothing 
more. Very little remains of the ancient cult center known 
to the mortals. The archeologists say little existed to begin 
with. Last time, I saw no reason to doubt them.
As I walk through the starlit ruins, a man steps from 
behind an eroded mastaba. He wears a simple black robe and 
carries the measuring-rod of an ancient Egyptian priest. His 
head is shaved; he wears no jewelry. “Welcome in the name 
of Set,” he says. He turns and gestures with his rod for me to 
follow as he strides away.
I stammer thanks and questions as I hurry after. “Where 
are we going? Are you really repairing the Great Temple?”
“The Great Temple is whole. It was repaired a hundred years 
ago.” The priest does not even turn to look at me as he answers.”
“A hundred years! Why didn’t I see it before?”
“You were not ready then. You saw only what we wanted 
you to see. Now — you will see more. As much as the god wills.”
“As much as the god wills, or the Hierophant?”
“The god.” This time he stops and turns. “Great Set has 
returned. Now be silent!”
A thousand questions boil in my mind. Most are sarcastic. 
Nevertheless, I obey.
We walk into the desert for nearly an hour, until a lone 
pylon gate rises before us. “Through there,” my guide says. 
“Great Set waits beyond. Walk straight ahead and you will 
come to Him. He will answer your questions Himself.”
I do as he says and walk for miles. The night becomes 
very cold. I check my watch. It has stopped. Will I reach my 
destination before morning?
I have never seen the stars so bright in the black, moon-
less sky. The outcroppings of rock cast opaque shadows on the 
silvered desert sands. Yet I cast no shadow. Looking behind, 
I see no footprints in the sand. I kick at the sand and leave 
no mark.
Panic grips me. I run back the way I came… Is it the way 
I came? Did I pass that cluster of rocks? Did I climb that dune? 
The priest deceived me; how could anyone possibly keep a 
straight line in this desert, with no landmarks to guide him?
Eventually I stop running. I am lost. I kneel, call upon 
the Blood and strike the sand with all my might. I cannot 
move a single grain. I sit and watch a star near the horizon 
while I count to a thousand, three times. It does not move.
I have all the time in the world. Numb, I rise and con-
tinue walking.
The pylons rise before me again. If I pass through them 
again, will I return to the world I knew? Will I return, know-
ing no more than when I entered, defeated?
Great Set, my fate is in Your hands. I fear nothing. Sire 
of my sires, my Lord, my God, show me the truth.
I square my shoulders, lift my head and march away from 
the pylon gate again, into the desert. I do not look back.


Clanbook: Setite
36


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
37
“Forbidden knowledge:” The phrase sounds quaint at the 
dawn of the 21st century. Science penetrates to the farthest 
abysses of space and time, unlocks the atom and rewrites the 
code of life. What knowledge could possibly seem “forbidden” 
to anyone but a few reactionary religious nuts?
Knowledge of the world is safe enough. The fruits of such 
knowledge can do nothing worse than kill you — not much 
to fear at all. Knowledge of the soul is another matter. Learn-
ing what hideous desires and depravities lurk behind each 
human face — especially your own — that is the knowledge 
at which the mind recoils.
Yes, some Followers of Set addict people to drugs, run 
strings of whores and blackmail their clients. Everybody has 
to make a living somehow. Crime and vice, however, merely 
serve as tempting bait, drawing these Serpents’ customers to 
their true commodity — the knowledge of good and evil.
Especially evil.
Chapter Two:  
After Such 
Knowledge
Other vampires think they understand the Followers of 
Set. They are the pimps and pushers, the scum who cater to 
the lowest, slimiest aspects of human and vampiric nature. 
And there’s that snake-cult thing. Sires warn their childer 
to stay away from the Setites and their vile temptations.
And yet…vampires keep coming to the Followers of 
Set, despite all the warnings. If other vampires understand 
the Serpents so well, how could they possibly ensnare and 
“corrupt” anyone? “Let’s see, you peddle every vice known to 
man, you worship the Egyptian God of Evil, and you say you 
want to be my special friend. Yeah, right. Pull the other one.”
The Setites, however, are not the Clan of Corruption. 
They are the Clan of the Serpent. They claim for themselves 
an ancient, nigh-universal symbol of wisdom and power: 
sometimes benevolent, often dangerous. Like the serpent in 
Eden, the Followers of Set lead other Kindred and kine to a 
terrible, forbidden knowledge.
What are the roots that clutch, what branches grow
Out of this stony rubbish? Son of man,
You cannot say, or guess, for you know only
A heap of broken images, where the sun beats,
And the dead tree gives no shelter, the cricket no relief…
— T. S. Eliot, The Waste Land


Clanbook: Setite
38
Come into the serpent’s lair. Push your way past the 
dead-eyed teenagers with needle-scarred arms, the women 
and men so eager to sell you their favors, the businessmen 
and politicians desperate for an edge on the competition. 
Enter the Dark God’s temple, where the torchlight glimmers 
on gold and polished onyx. Fear not.
Nothing here can harm you…except what you bring yourself.
The Clan of Faith
One feature, more than any other, sets the Followers of 
Set apart from every other vampire lineage. They believe 
themselves the childer of a god — not just an Antediluvian, 
a god. As worshippers of their forebear, the Followers of Set 
are as much a cult as a clan.
Not every Setite takes the same attitude toward their 
divine ancestor, any more than every mortal Catholic, Jew, 
Buddhist or Neopagan takes the same attitude to their faith. 
Some Serpents order their whole unlife around their religion, 
zealously trying to Follow Set and convert other people to 
his worship. Other Setites take a more casual (or pragmatic) 
attitude. Yes, they pray to the Dark God now and then and 
go to the temple on holidays, but more worldly affairs domi-
nate their nights. Still others, like children of lapsed Jews 
who barely consider themselves Jewish, consider the label 
“Follower of Set” nothing more than a quaint (or embar-
rassing) relic of vampiric heredity. At the far extreme, a few 
Serpents actively rebel against their clan and its faith. Like 
many fervent atheists, their continuing, deliberate rebellion 
shows how much of a hold that faith still has upon them.
Like any sizable religion, the Followers of Set contains 
various sub-cults and schisms… even a few heresies. Most 
drastically, the Serpents of the Light reject the worship of 
Set and ally themselves to the Sabbat. The main body of the 
clan also condemns a minority that turned to the worship 
of demons. Other sub-cults coexist, at times uneasily. These 
emphasize some particular aspect of Set, or identify him with 
a god or gods from some other cultural tradition.
Such differences would escalate into full-scale holy war, 
were it not for the continual pressure placed upon the Followers 
of Set by other vampires and other religions. The Setite faith 
runs contrary to the entire Abrahamic tradition of Judaism, 
Christianity and Islam. Even among vampires who consider 
themselves Damned, the Setites’ beliefs inspire fear and 
hate. By no stretch of the imagination can one consider the 
Serpents a tightly disciplined hive-mind — but most Setites 
understand that they cannot afford to war among themselves.
Fundamentals
Every religious practice has three important aspects: 
Doctrine, Ritual and Experience. Doctrine consists of what 
the religion says about the natural and supernatural worlds, 
humanity’s relationships to them, social order, ethics and the 
like. Worshippers perform rituals to connect themselves to the 
divine and affirm their cohesion as a community. What’s the use 
of beliefs and rites, however, if the worshipper cannot experi-
ence himself joined to something greater — something divine?
Most Setite cults emphasize experience over doctrine. 
The Embrace, a shattering, personal transformation of body 
and soul, defines their very existence as childer of a god. 
Setites seek other intense and terrifying spiritual experiences 
and strive to grant other people such epiphanies as well.
Setite faith also demands ritual observances. A devout 
Follower of Set shows her obedience to the Dark God through 
prayer, psalms and sacrifices. She spends a few minutes each 
night praying before an image of Set, offering beer and a few 
drops of her own vitae to the god. In contrast to such brief 
and humble ceremonies, the cult marks its high holidays with 
rites that last most of the night.
Doctrine holds a lesser role in Setite religion. This may 
seem strange, for the Followers of Set possess an enormous canon 
of scripture: chronicles of the clan’s history, devotional tracts, 
liturgies, grimoires, metaphysical speculations and even a gospel 
allegedly written by Set himself. The Setite attitude to their holy 
books, however, differs greatly from that of a Christian, Jew or 
Muslim. Every scripture or gospel (except Set’s own) merely 
records one particular Setite’s interpretation of his mystical 
experiences. Although the Setites place great value on the 
act of writing, they believe that words cannot capture spiritual 
truth. The worshipper cannot find the Godhead in a simple set 
of commandments and dogmas. She must feel it, sense it, be it.
Because of this emphasis on personal experience, Setite 
cults rarely suffer venomous doctrinal disputes. A Setite’s 
salvation does not depend on the minutiae of doctrine. The 
Dark God does not make his followers pass a written test. 
Set’s tests are far more…visceral.
Doctrine
Followers of Set do agree upon a few fundamental 
doctrines. They permit wide variations in detail; the broad 
outline, however, remains the same for most sects. These 
beliefs define Setite orthodoxy.
The World
Setite theologians begin with ancient Egyptian myths but 
develop them in their own way. Theophidian doctrine holds that 
the world is a bubble of light and life within an endless black sea 
called Nun. This “Primeval Ocean” contains within itself the 
unrealized potential for all existence. Atum-Ra, the Creator, 
spontaneously arose from Nun when he became aware of his own 
existence. Atum-Ra raised a mound of earth from the waters so 
that he would have a place to stand. This mound grew to become 
the entire world. Setites describe the Creator as a small and wicked 
god, a mere Demiurge, rather than a truly universal deity.
Modern Setites do not take this story too literally. Some 
believe that the Primal Chaos of Nun exists in another dimen-
sion. Perhaps, they say, Nun is the black, tempest-wracked 
ocean that underlies the realm of the dead. More materialistic 


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
39
Setites suggest that Nun is the black void of outer space and 
point to the great dark clouds of dust and gas that give birth 
to new stars and worlds.
Whatever truth hides behind the enigmatic symbols of 
Nun and Atum-Ra, the Setites say that the Creator birthed 
lesser deities — the Aeons — to assist him in shaping and 
ruling the world. The Demiurge and Aeons created humanity, 
too, but created her too well. Perhaps Atum-Ra breathed too 
much of his divine essence into the first humans when he gave 
them life and souls. Setite mystics propose dozens of poetic 
fancies about the Great Accident that gave humans free will.
In the First Age of the world, the Aeons lived among 
humanity, apparently quite corporeal. Setites disagree about 
whether the gods grew apart from humanity to become 
bodiless spirits, or whether human perceptions coarsened so 
that mortals could no longer interact directly with gods. Set 
became the first vampire during this Age of Fable. Many Setite 
mythopoeists declare that the Dark God’s metamorphosis 
forced the Aeons to depart the material world.
The Aeons no longer intervene in human affairs directly. 
Instead they rule spiritually, deluding the mortals into working 
their will. The Aeons create religions, governments, com-
merce, wars — all culture and society — as a web to ensnare 
human souls. Even the salvations and afterlives promised by 
other faiths are cunning snares by which the Aeons harvest 
souls to become their slaves. The Demiurge is a jealous god. 
He does not want humans to know that they could grow as 
powerful as himself.
The Primeval Ocean can birth new worlds at a powerful 
soul’s command. The Setites hope to escape or overthrow 
the Earth’s divine masters so that each Setite can become 
a Creator in his own right, as Set promised them long ago.
Ethics
Most Setites couple their view of the world with a spe-
cial attitude about good and evil. The Abrahamic religions 
chiefly define good and evil in terms of deeds: kindness or 
cruelty, obedience or disobedience. A Theophidian defines 
evil as a condition of ignorance. Theophidians feel a profound 
alienation from a world that seems painful, absurd and cha-
otic. Why are people born only to die? Why do bad things 
happen to good people? Why do “rational” souls feel such 
crazy, burning passions? Why doesn’t the world make more sense?
The core Setite faith answers such questions by proposing 
a radical split between the divine, eternal soul and the cor-
rupt, transitory world and body. The laws of the faith say that 
deep down the soul knows it does not belong in a prison of 
matter. Anything that distracts the soul from this knowledge 
and ties it to the world must be a trap — and if the world is a 
prison, then the gods must be its jailers. To achieve liberation, 
a soul must shed all the false doctrines, cravings and habits 
that bind it and blind it. Such self-awareness cannot come 


Clanbook: Setite
40
from mere argument or faith. Only direct experience of the 
most extreme sort — gnosis — can break the soul free. The 
Path of Typhon gives Setites their guide.
Vampires occupy a special place in the world. They are 
dead flesh, but incorruptible and possessed of supernatural 
powers. Vampires escape the iron law of time and decay that 
afflicts other material things because of their spiritual force. 
Through gnosis, the Setites believe they can achieve truly 
divine power over the world and liberate themselves from 
every physical and spiritual constraint.
Theophidians differ in what they want to do with the world 
once they escape its grip and fully realize their divinity. Some 
Theophidians want to depart this world and shape new worlds in 
the abyss of Nun. Other Theophidians hope to replace the gods 
and rule the world themselves. A few quietists say that once the 
soul achieves gnosis, the world and the Aeons become irrelevant.
The most extreme Setites declare, however, that to de-
feat the Aeons they must destroy the world the Aeons built. 
Whether this instantly liberates all uninitiated souls or destroys 
them does not matter much to these radicals. The Demiurge 
made the world a prison; these Setites mean to escape, even 
if they have to burn the prison down from the inside. As they 
survey the World of Darkness, they see the fires already set.
All ready, Set….
The Aeons
Most Setites call the Aeons by the names of Egyptian gods. 
In ancient times, perhaps they believed that Ra and Osiris re-
ally did rule the cosmos, exactly as their mythology described. 
In Hellenistic times, however, the Setites adopted a more ecu-
menical approach. Setite doctrine declares that the gods of myth 
are poetic symbols, “masks” that both reveal and conceal the 
Aeons. The Demiurge is not really a falcon-headed man called 
Ra, any more than a boat really carries the Sun across the sky, 
but these images give simple folk a way to approach mysteries 
beyond their comprehension. An Aeon can use many masks 
and many names. Amon is Zeus is Marduk is Indra is Chango 
is St. Barbara…and so on, ad infinitum. An Aeon might also use 
several masks within a single religion. Theophidians love to cite 
the Father, Son and Holy Ghost as an example.
More than one Aeon might use a particular god as its 
mask. The Egyptians identified virtually every god with the 
sun-god Ra at one time or another. They also freely merged 
gods into composite deities such as Serapis, a fusion of Apis 
and Osiris. In sum, gods and Aeons do not possess distinct, 
individual identities the way people do.
A Serpent might merge Set himself with other gods. 
Theophidian psalms often grant Set the attributes of other 
Egyptian gods. He possesses the valor and majesty of the war-
god Mont, or the magical prowess of Thoth; he rules the dead 
like Seker, or shapes the living like Khnum. Setite missionaries 
identify the Dark God with gods of other mythologies, if they 
think this will help worshippers understand Set’s mysteries. 
The Cult of Typhon Trismegistus, for instance, identifies Set 
with the Greek god-monster Typhon and the Roman gods 
Bacchus, Mars and Pluto.
The Setites draw the line, however, at identifying Set with 
his great enemies Ra, Osiris and Horus. Ra is the mask of the 
Demiurge himself, though he also calls himself Atum, Khepri, 
Aton, and for that matter Jehovah and Brahma. Osiris, prototype 
of all gods who die and come back to life, forms a more active 
enemy as the Demiurge’s chief executive in the spirit world. 
Horus, the least of this trinity, represents the worldly power of 
kings, presidents and governments. Some Setites deny Horus 
a place among the Aeons. They say that the “Avenger” still 
walks the Earth, immortal but quite corporeal.
The Path of Typhon 
Revisited
To other vampires, the Setites’ service to their divine forebear 
looks utterly evil. Setites wallow in degradation and try to drag 
everyone else down with them. Mere debauchery does not account 
for the hatred other vampires feel. After all, the average Cainite 
elder sees cruelty and perversity that would make the maddest 
Roman emperor gag. The Setites, however, seem to get away with 
it. They thrive on villainies that would send any other vampire 
into the berserk madness of the Beast. It isn’t fair!
Such hatred and fear saddens devout Theophidians, but 
they are used to it. The living and the undead have grown 
so used to the mental prisons of the Aeons that they fear to 
leave. The Path of Typhon teaches liberation, not corruption, 
but the path of freedom holds fear and pain. Naturally, the 
priests of the Aeons’ false religions condemn Setite beliefs 
as “sinful” — confronted with the truth, liars and knaves 
always fall back on slander.
The Followers of Set teach that their founder was one of 
the gods of Egypt. The Setites say that they are much older 
than the Hebrew legend of Caine. Set became a vampire 
through his defeat of Apep and the curse of Ra, but turned 
the curse of undeath into a divine blessing that he shared 
with deserving mortals. In life or in death, the gods could 
manipulate mortals and hide the truth from them. Caught 
between life and death, Set’s followers have eternity to pursue 
enlightenment and the liberation of humanity.
A devout Theophidian strives to root out any trace of 
conscience or morality based on custom and the dictates of 
society. He deliberately seeks out the objects and acts that 
revolt him, to break their power over him. He also confronts 
his own desires, to break their power as well — if necessary, 
by exhausting them through hyper-indulgence. His goal is 
to hate nothing but the Aeons and desire nothing except his 
own emancipation and the emancipation of others.
Although the Followers of Set seek influence over persons 
and institutions, the Path of Typhon tells them not to gather 
power for its own sake. Rather, Theophidians seek to wrest 
power away from the Aeons and their mortal (and Kindred) 
dupes. When a Setite controls other people through their 
desires, she leads them to liberty…eventually.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
41
Most people cannot recognize the spiritual chains that 
bind them. Here too, mortal desires serve the Theophidian 
cause. If a person cannot understand his enslavement to 
social convention, perhaps he will understand enslavement 
to alcohol, sex or money. The Setites would teach gently 
if they could. All too often, however, nothing will open a 
person’s eyes but the complete ruination of his life and pride. 
Theophidians call such soul-shattering lessons the Revela-
tions of the Void. At last, humbled and stripped of worldly 
entanglements, a Setite’s victim may devote his life or unlife 
to Set and begin the long trek to transcendence.
So say the proselytes of the Path of Typhon, anyway. In 
practice, few Followers of Set achieve such icy purity. Many 
a Setite practices a rather more selfish credo with a veneer of 
Theophidian rhetoric. They employ the tools of enslavement 
and degradation to benefit themselves. Such Setites usually 
follow the path of Humanity — poorly — rather than adher-
ing to the beliefs of the Path of Typhon.
History
Theophidians claim that they follow the oldest Path of 
Enlightenment. The Followers codified and rewrote the Path 
several times to keep it up to date. Over the millennia, dozens 
of variations on the basic doctrine have come and gone. Setite 
cults may incorporate elements from Greek mystery cults, 
Christian Gnosticism, African tribal religions, Sufi mysticism, 
Hindu philosophy and indeed any other mystic or esoteric 
ideas a Theophidian might encounter. The Path of Typhon 
encourages creative theology: if a new interpretation or cult 
practice leads more people to enlightenment, it is true, or at 
least true enough for those of limited understanding.
Most of the Setite scriptures in current usage employ 
Greek terminology because they were written in Hellenistic 
and Roman times. Much of that jargon also occurs in more 
widely known Gnostic gospels, some of which were actually 
written by Setites.
Current Practices
Some Kindred imagine that the Followers of Set form a gi-
ant syndicate of temptation reaching around the world. Nothing 
could be further from the truth. Rather, the Cult of Set consists 
of numerous sects, large and small, exploring variations on the 
basic doctrines. They have no fixed canon of commandments 
or sacred texts. Ultimately, each Theophidian must decide for 
herself what she believes. They draw the line, however, at the 
Serpents of the Light. Theophidians of all stripes regard the 
antitribu bloodline within the Sabbat as traitors who sold out 
to the Aeons. Theophidians also despise clan members who 
turn to Satanism — to their eyes, the cheapest of false beliefs.
Followers of Set serve their cause in many ways, from scholars 
to courtesans. Alas, many within the clan forget why they pursue 
and provide vice, power and pleasure to others, or they never 
learned from their neglectful sires. These vicemongers become 
the Setites most visible to other Kindred.


Clanbook: Setite
42
As a result, the Theophidian Path split into two: the familiar 
Path of Typhon, that teaches followers to revel in universal 
corruption; and the Path of Sutekh, that teaches followers to 
push beyond desire and degradation. Some cults teach the Path 
of Typhon first, then teach the Path of Sutekh when the Setite 
becomes ready for a higher level of initiation. Other cults talk 
about enlightenment to make Setite practices more palatable 
to initiates, then admit that degradation is its only purpose.
Unfortunately, by now neither Typhonists nor Sutekh-
ians can prove which doctrine came first. Diplomatic Setites 
avoid offending their clanmates by referring to the “Path of 
Typhon Set,” without specifying which version of the Path 
they actually mean. Indeed, their Paths call Typhonists and 
Sutekhians to commit or refrain from the same deeds: only 
their reasons differ. A Typhonist may switch to the Sutekhian 
Path, or vice-versa, at no more cost than the character’s Path 
rating dropping to 3. (If a Theophidian character has a Path 
rating of 3 or less, she may flip-flop at will. Such tergiversa-
tion, though, pretty much guarantees that the character will 
never advance in either Path.)
The clan’s creative theology occasionally spawns other 
variations on the Path of Typhon Set. Some Setites choose 
a militant path, delaying their own enlightenment to defend 
the cult against its enemies, forming a “warrior” bloodline. 
Others pursue their own enlightenment through extravagant 
hedonism and altered states of consciousness, calling this the 
Path of Ecstasy. In the Dark Ages, some Setites sought to make 
their Path more palatable by speaking of a state of “natural in-
nocence” that humanity could regain once it cast out shame. 
Path of Sutekh Hierarchy of Sins
Score	
Moral Guideline	 	
	
	
	
Rationale
10	
Pursuing one’s own indulgence instead of another’s	
This shows a lack of self-discipline and compassion. Enjoy 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
your work, but remember that you serve others first.
9	
Refusing to aid another follower of the Path	 	
Set commanded his childer to cooperate against the Aeons. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Denying other seekers means denying Set.
8	
Failing to destroy a vampire in Golconda	
	
Those in Golconda are either ready to leave the world and 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
become independent creators; or they have completely sold 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
out to the Aeons to abate their curse.
7	
Failing to observe Setite religious ritual	
	
This is akin to denying Set and faith itself.
6	
Failing to undermine the current social order		
The social order is a snare by the Aeons. Only through Set 
	
in favor of the Setites	
	
	
	
can Kindred and kine find salvation.
5	
Failing to do whatever is necessary to enlighten another	
If you balk at any deed that is necessary to liberate another, 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
you have not truly freed yourself.
4	
Failing to pursue arcane knowledge	 	
	
The mysteries of enlightenment and the key to the Aeons’ 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
defeat may be hidden anywhere.
3	
Obstructing another Setite’s efforts	
	
	
The ranks of the righteous are no place for petty power plays.
2	
Failing to take advantage of another’s weakness	
This would deny the other person a chance to realize their 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
need for Set’s saving grace. How will others learn if they do 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
not recognize their errors?
1	
Refusing to aid in Set’s resurrection		
	
This is complete abandonment of sire, faith and clan to 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
serve the Aeons.
These Setites called their variation the Path of Serpentis and 
cited vague connections between Egyptian myth and the Serpent 
in Genesis. In contemporary nights, all Setites — Warriors, 
Ecstatics and others — pursue their beliefs within a framework 
of either Humanity or some version of the Path of Typhon Set. 
Theophidians generally recognize that all the clan’s “demi-Paths” 
merely add commentary to the Dark God’s message.
Ethics of the Path of Sutekh
• Gather information — secret and otherwise — and 
learn how it applies to the resurrection of Set, the true nature 
of divinity and the origin and fate of the world.
• Subjugate the Beast: Self-discipline and cunning must 
temper a warrior’s rage.
• Immerse yourself in whatever you hate, fear or shun, 
that it may not hold power over you.
• Tempt, confuse and degrade others, that they may 
recognize their own limitations and seek to overcome them.
• Maintain a veil of secrecy, for the Aeons delude hu-
manity into fearing its own freedom.
• Acquire power to further the cult’s cause and turn 
the Aeons’ dupes against them, but do not love power for 
its own sake.
• Seek revelation through knowledge, faith and experi-
ence.
Virtues
Like the Typhonists, followers of the Path of Sutekh 
uphold the virtues of Conviction and Self-Control.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
43
Temples and Rituals
A casual Setite may own a statuette or icon of his god from 
habit, just as a less-than-devout Christian might nevertheless 
put a little manger scene on the coffee table at Christmas. A 
reasonably devout Follower of Set, however, finds time to honor 
her dark progenitor through prayer and small sacrifices of incense, 
blood and beer. A true Theophidian will not want to begin a 
night without paying respect to the god who made him immortal.
More elaborate ceremonies take place in the communal 
temples. Most temples remain open for at least part of every 
night to serve the faithful who feel the need to honor the 
Dark God with a larger sacrifice.
Setite Temples
A typical Setite shrine consists of two chambers, rep-
resenting Upper and Lower Egypt. In the outer chamber 
— representing Lower Egypt — the celebrant symbolically 
removes connections to the secular world. This can be as simple 
as washing his hands, or as elaborate as stripping to the skin, 
proclaiming 42 abominable sins, and rolling in urine and ashes.
The inner chamber represents Set’s demesne of Upper 
Egypt. It should be shielded from exterior light. A full-scale 
temple uses two sets of doors — like in a movie theater — or 
dense, light-blocking curtains. The worshippers need at least 
a little light, though. Low, guttering torches are traditional, 
though some temples prefer candles shining through green and 
red glass to supply a dim and ghastly light. In the 1990s, several 
new temples placed tiny lights in a domed ceiling to represent 
the stars, with the Big Dipper directly over the statue of Set. 
A brazier (possibly electric) would burn before the statue.
Many Setites cannot afford such a two-room setup in their 
havens. Poorer Setites can run a curtain or hang a blanket to 
divide a room, or deck out a closet as a little one-room shrine. 
Setites who lack a permanent haven may carry an icon of the god 
in a black fabric-lined case that unfolds as a tiny symbolic shrine.
Setite Worship
A basic Setite service takes at least an hour. Celebrants 
assemble in the outer chamber. A priest leads them in a few 
litanies and exhorts them to purge their minds of everything 
but Set. The celebrants file into the inner chamber, where 
the high priest welcomes them. Some small rite — sprinkling 
beer, perhaps, or burning incense on the brazier — affirms 
the sacredness of the time and place.
What happens after that depends on the nature of the rite, 
the participants and the cult. On one occasion, the celebrants 
might strive to push themselves beyond frenzy into a trance 
by drinking drugged blood and dancing wildly while lashing 
each other’s naked bodies with whips. On another occasion, 
the priests might wear masks and re-enact scenes from myth. 
A Setite service can range from a formal and eerie beauty to 
an orgy of monstrous debauchery.
Western Setites generally divide their religious ceremonies 
into three categories. The Cult of Typhon Trismegistus first 
defined the categories (hence the Latin names). Bacchantic 
rituals involve frenzied passion and abandon. The celebrants try 
to suppress the false ego and perhaps gain a revelation from Set 
through extremities of sensation and emotion. Martial ceremonies 
emphasize Set as warrior and the cult’s aggressive aspect. The 
priest exhorts the congregation to stand together and fight the 
Aeons. Members brag about their achievements and offer fellow 
celebrants a chance to join in their current plans. Plutonian rites 
are solemn and meditative. Celebrants reflect on their existence 
caught between life and death and godhood. Most Setite cults 
perform Embraces as part of a Plutonian rite.
Setite ceremonies often feature a blood sacrifice. Not 
only do celebrants offer their own vitae to the Dark God, 
the priests slaughter an animal for Set. A priest catches the 
spurting blood in a bowl and offers it to the god with a prayer. 
She may pour the blood over the statue (called “washing the 
face of the god”) or burn it in the brazier. The celebrants drink 
the rest of the animal’s blood, either as a solemn communion 
or a messy blood-feast. The cults reserve human sacrifices for 
special occasions, since disposing of bodies is a bit of a chore. 
The celebrants might also offer beer, honey or scented oils.
For her personal blood cult, a Setite can design what-
ever rites and ceremonies she wants. Artistic rituals boost 
a Serpent’s prestige with other local Setites. In most cases, 
however, a worship ceremony will climax with the mortal 
cultists offering the Serpent their blood, and the vampire ac-
cepting. That is, after all, the fundamental purpose of the cult!
Setite Holy Week
The Followers of Set celebrate several festivals throughout 
the year. The two most important are the Murder of Osiris, 
on the 107th day of the Egyptian year (Nov. 19), and the 
“Holy Week” sequence at year’s end (July 31 - August 4). The 
Egyptians made the last five days of the year the birthdays of 
Osiris, Horus, Set, Isis and Nephthys. The Universe was in 
peril during those five days.
During Holy Week the Followers of Set pray for the doom 
of the gods and the end of the world. Coteries re-enact scenes 
from the life and unlife of Set. Serpents tell each other what they 
did to weaken the Aeons’ rule, and make pledges for the coming 
year. One Setite might vow to experience a new Revelation of the 
Void before the new year’s end; another might pledge to bring a 
local government official down in scandal. Many Setites prefer 
to leave their enemies alive (or undead) until Holy Week, so 
they can sacrifice them to Set on the Dark God’s own birthday.
Religious Art
Some Setites prefer to keep their shrines stark. They 
say that painted walls, carved altars and jeweled implements 
distracts worshippers from the desolate majesty of Set. Other 
Setites prefer to glorify their god through art. A devout Setite 
can express her piety in several ways.
In large, old temples, the Setites might carve and paint 
hieroglyphic inscriptions and scenes from Setite myth and 
history. The most popular scenes, of course, are those of Set’s 


Clanbook: Setite
44
life and unlife, such as Set in battle or the hunt, the murder 
of Osiris, or Set ripping out the eye of Horus. Temples that 
syncretize Set with gods from other traditions substitute 
scenes from that mythology. For instance, the Cult of Ty-
phon’s temples display scenes such as Bacchus among frenzied 
maenads, Mars triumphant in battle and Pluto on his throne.
The statue of Set may itself become an artistic treasure, 
though plain black granite and basalt have their partisans. The 
statue of Typhon in the Cave of Apples is cunningly carved from 
human bone stained black. The Arena of Thunder’s idol of Set is 
black-enameled bronze and incorporates a speaking-tube: a hidden 
priest can read from the Book of Going Forth by Night and make 
the god’s own words come from his mouth. On many statues, 
Set’s kilt, headdress and sandals are made of gold and inlaid with 
faience, lapis lazuli, carnelian and other semiprecious stones.
The ritual implements may be masterpieces of the 
jeweler’s art. Theophidian doctrine holds that a crude clay 
bowl and a rusty old knife will suffice to honor the Lord of 
the Desert. In fact, for some rites they are preferable. At a 
wealthy Setite temple, however, the high priest might cut the 
sacrifice’s throat with a jeweled dagger and catch the blood in 
a basin of obsidian chased with silver. In India, the Setites of 
that land prefer to use cups made from human skulls enameled 
black and set with gems. Censers, braziers, torch-holders, the 
priest’s rod of office — all provide opportunities for Setites 
to show their devotion through costly and grotesque beauty.
The plastic arts do not exhaust a Setite’s possibilities. The 
Followers of Set proudly claim a long tradition of homilies, 
parables, psalms and litanies. A good singing voice may not 
take a Serpent very far in the cult hierarchy, but it’s better 
than nothing. A fellow who writes hymns that other temples 
adopt brings great prestige to himself and his congregation.
Not every Setite artist sticks to ancient traditions, either 
— Egyptian or otherwise. The doctrinal push to break bound-
aries counteracts the intrinsic conservatism that afflicts the 
undead. Some Theophidians employ the most contemporary 
styles, from electronic dissonance to holography and laser 
light shows, as they seek to express the glory of Set and the 
Revelations of the Void.
The Last Revelation
Cultists seldom receive their cult’s full doctrine at once. 
The Followers of Set believe that most people must be led to 
the truth by easy stages. First a new recruit hears a comfortable, 
bowdlerized doctrine, something not too far perhaps from 
what she believes already. If the acolyte proves sufficiently 
diligent, loyal and insightful, the Setite priest reveals new 
doctrines. As the priest explains, some truths are too sacred 
and arcane for common minds; ordinary folk would misun-
derstand the dogmas and profane the mysteries. The previous 
doctrines were…well, not false, exactly, but incomplete and 
with hidden meanings. If the initiate passes the tests and 
masters the doctrines and practices of this second grade of the 
cult, he will learn more secret teachings. Certain necessary 
deceptions, practiced to protect the sacred mysteries from the 
unworthy, will be explained once the cultist takes the great 
oath of secrecy; apparent inconsistencies will be explained.
A cult initiate thus slides into a peculiar mental trap. He knows 
that the cult leader lied to him before. In fact, the leader lies to him 
still, or at least keeps secrets, because only the highest levels of the 
priesthood know the cult’s full and true gospel. But he still believes! 
After so much effort, the cultist will not easily admit that the 
whole cult might not be what he thought. Thus the cult lead-
ers draw him on, panting for the next initiation into the next 
mystery, farther and farther from the life he knew before the cult.
Personal blood cults often constitute the outer layers of 
a Setite cult. Many mortals remain content to grovel before a 
vampire in return for a pat on the head and the occasional taste 
of vitae. They do not hear about Followers of Set. They know 
only the Dark God who drinks their blood. They may well think 
Happy Anniversary
The Egyptian government used a calendar of 365 days 
that began on the day when the star Sirius (Egyptian Sop-
det; Greek Sothis) rose with the Sun. Because they lacked 
a leap year, however, the calendar moved out of step with 
this actual astronomical event. The civil year began on the 
proper day only once every 1,460 solar years — a period 
called the Sothic cycle.
Alone among clans, the Setites define an exact age 
when a vampire graduates to Methuselah status. When a 
Setite survives an entire Sothic cycle of 1,460 solar years, 
he or she becomes a Djet Sopdet or “Eternal of Sirius.” 
Setites honor their Sothic Eternals as genuine demigods 
whose every whim holds the force of divine command.
Litany of Sutekh
Hail, thou lord of stars unknown,
Serpent king on desert throne,
Warrior on black winds blown!
Madness-bringer, Duke of Dreams,
Hymns of praise in nighttime screams,
Source of weird and darkling dooms
Carried forth on black ray-streams!
Master of unquiet tombs,
I call Thee from Thy outer glooms!
From Thy features lift the cowl!
Reveal the fairness in the foul!
From inner darkness where they dwell
Let secret lusts uncoil and howl
The prophecies of death and hell —
Prophecies for me to tell.
O, free my soul from custom’s jail
And grant a faith that will not fail,
Immortal Set, All-Father, hail!
— Hymnal of Hardjedef, 1927


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
45
their vampiric master is Set, or Bacchus, Astarte, the Black Christ, 
or whatever other persona the Setite adopts. Cultists who show 
a bit more brains and ambition may graduate to the “inner cult” 
of the regional Setite temple — and the next layer of the trap. 
Ultimately, a cultist can win the greatest initiation, the Embrace…
…And learn, perhaps, that she still does not receive the 
truth. The center of the labyrinth holds — another labyrinth. 
The cult elders have their own agendas. Who knows what the 
clan’s Eternals really want, to say nothing of Set himself? The 
Path of Typhon Set exists in two competing forms; perhaps 
neither one is the final word. A Setite who does not accept blind 
faith, who pursues the truth about his clan without relent, finds 
each history contradicted, each doctrine fractured. He ends with 
nothing but myths and the Revelations of the Void: a handful 
of broken images and ruined hopes in the desert of his soul.
Setite Divisions
As the Followers of Set traveled, their doctrines changed. 
Setites often identified their divine forebear with a local god, 
both to make their message more palatable and to make 
themselves seem less foreign. Why should a Greek, a Celt, a 
Yoruban or an Indian care about an Egyptian god? They might 
not have heard of Egypt. Instead, the Serpent identifies himself 
as a Follower of Typhon, Cernunnos, Damballah or Shiva.
After more than a thousand years, some of these divisions 
became pretty deep. Some “Followers of Set” no longer use that 
name. Some no longer recognize any kinship to the clan at all: they 
regard themselves as members of their own clans or bloodlines.
Orthodox Cults
The Followers of Set’s emphasis on personal revelation 
generates dozens of little cults. Really, it makes more sense 
to see the Setite religion as a framework for generating cults 
rather than a unified, coherent doctrine.
Setite groups also emerge through interactions with 
the local culture. Put simply, Setites are not all a bunch of 
Egyptian émigrés. Since their doctrine is flexible to begin 
with, Setites easily compromise with local cultures, adding 
still more diversity to the clan.
A typical cult consists of a “Founding Temple” and several 
lesser temples scattered hither and yon. Egypt holds most of the 
really old and prestigious Founding Temples. A powerful cult’s 
Hierophant, or senior priest, oversees the Founding Temple. The 
chief priests of important daughter temples are simply called High 
Priests. A priest who manages a small temple by herself bears no 
special title that the rest of the clan will honor. Of course, if a Setite 
wants to tell other vampires that she’s the Grand Archimandrite 
of the Elder Temple, that’s her business, and she and any other 
Setites she meets can share a good laugh at the deception.
The Cohort of Wepwawet
This militant cult is a rare example of Setite fundamental-
ism. Cohort members claim Set’s childe, Wepwawet, as their 
leader. No one outside the Arena of thunder, their Founding 
Temple at Abu Simbel, can prove whether or not this Eternal 
actually does lead the cult (or even exists).
The Cohort began as a cult of Warrior Setites devoted to 
protecting Egypt from southern invaders. It declined after the 
Purge of Baybars, but rapidly grew in the 1960s when cultists said 
that Wepwawet had awakened from a long torpor. In the 1970s, 
the Cohort launched a revival campaign to bring heterodox Setite 
cults in line with the “true and ancient Theophidian doctrine.” 
It lacked support from other cults, equally ancient and powerful, 
who disagreed with the Cohort’s hostility to other vampire clans. 
In the end, the Cohort achieved little except to foster ill-will 
against “Setite fanatics.” It even drove the Serpents of the Light 
to join the Sabbat. This debacle wrecked the Cohort’s credibility 
with other major cults and members drifted away. The shrunken 
Cohort abandoned many shrines, and many Cohort cells only 
have a single vampire member. The Cohort leaders hunger for 
victories and achievements to boost their prestige again.
When not crusading for orthodoxy, Cohort members 
often seek out other supernatural beings whom they regard 
as special minions of the Aeons, such as Christian and 
Muslim sorcerer-priests and the Ventrue. In the 1990s, the 
shrunken cult began a vendetta with the Society of Leopold. 
The Wepwawetans have slain and corrupted many of these 
latter-day witch-hunters and suffered their own losses in turn.
The Scandinavian Setites
Few Setite lineages provoke more surprise than the Setites 
of Scandinavia; yet the Serpents have dwelled in the High North 
since the 9th century. All Scandinavian Setites (apparently less 
than a dozen) claim descent from a single Norse merchant, Arnulf 
Jormungandrsson (formerly Seamundsson), who encountered 
the Followers on a trading mission to Alexandria. Arnulf’s at-
tempts to build a doomsday cult around the monstrous Midgard 
Serpent did not succeed very well, but he and his childer gained 
influence in the Scandinavian luxury trade.
By the 18th century, other Scandinavian vampires pretty 
much forgot Arnulf’s Setite lineage. He became one of the 
primogen of Christiana (now Oslo). In the 19th century, 
Arnulf played patron to nationalist Norwegian artists such 
as Edvard Grieg, and the “Hall of Jormungandr” became a 
fashionably naughty night spot for artists, folklore enthusiasts 
and assorted poseurs.
The Norwegian vampires stripped Arnulf of his primogency 
after World War Two because he cooperated with the Germans 
too well: the Kindred feel little sympathy for those who place their 
bets on the losing side. Arnulf remains the Keeper of Elysium in 
Oslo, however, and a patron of traditional Nordic arts and crafts. 
Other vampires consider his childer and grandchilder entirely 
respectable; but then, most Scandinavian vampires also think 
that Jormungandrsson and his brood are Toreador.
Cult of Taweret
This cult spreads from a Founding Temple beneath the El 
Kharga oasis, called the Palace of Veils. The cultists of Taweret 


Clanbook: Setite
46
explore the utmost extremities of sensation in their quest for 
enlightenment. This cult claims Set’s childe Taweret, the 
goddess of fertility, childbirth and black magic, as its special 
patron. The Taweretans emphasize liberation through ecstasy 
and debauchery. Some Setites consider the Taweretans a little 
too self-indulgent, but these Serpents hold their own view 
about the best way to oppose the Aeons. They corrupt people 
one at a time, but show great skill at picking victims whose 
ruination can cripple a company, pull down a government or 
otherwise cause public shock and cynicism at the scandal. The 
Taweretans never operate in groups larger than three: they argue 
that the Aeons taint any bond not based on personal emotions.
The Taweretans promote their own version of the Path 
of Sutekh, which they call the Path of Ecstasy. This Path 
differs from the “baseline” Path of Sutekh chiefly in that it 
recommends the Revelation of Ecstasy as its favored route to 
communion with the Dark God. Ecstatic Setites particularly 
cultivate Presence for its utility at enthralling other people; 
many of them also learn a bit of Auspex.
Sisterhood of Sekhmet
Early in the 20th century, a coterie of female Setites hit 
upon the idea of an all-female Gehenna cult as a way to lead 
Camarilla vampires to the Dark God and undermine the sect. 
They noticed that despite talk of gender equality among the 
undead, most cities had male princes. They set out to recruit 
female vampires who disliked the Camarilla’s glass ceiling. The 
Setites picked Sekhmet, a fierce lioness-goddess of war, plague 
and healing. Despite Sekhmet’s mythological connections to the 
sun and Ra, these Setites thought the goddess made a suitable 
symbol of female empowerment. Other Serpents still wonder why.
The Sisterhood did not really take off until the 1960s. 
Only a third of the cult’s 100-some members are Setites; the 
rest come from other clans. Most of the priestesses are Setite, 
but a few initiates wandered off to found their own cult cells 
with no Setite members at all.
The Sekhmetans recruit through political discontent (as 
well as the Embrace). The priestesses introduce the worship 
of Sekhmet as a “woman’s religion” suitable for the undead. 
They make the Revelations of the Void more appealing by 
calling them ways of getting in touch with an inner “Lion-
ess Power.” The cult introduces Set — eventually — as the 
consort of the Lioness. To the distress of Setite members, this 
aspect of doctrine does not seem to catch on well, and the 
Serpentless cult cells ignore Set completely. No recruit has 
passed all the way to the Path of Typhon Set.
Cult of Typhon Trismegistus
The Followers of Set first expanded into Europe through 
the Cult of Typhon Trismegistus. The cult became so influen-
tial in the Classical era that it left a permanent stamp on the 
terminology of the Setite religion — such as calling Setite 
philosophy the Path of Typhon instead of the Path of Sutekh.
In Greek mythology, the earth-goddess Gaia wanted re-
venge on her grandchildren, the Olympian gods, for usurping 
her children, the Titans. She lay with Tartarus — Hell — and 
Typhon was their child. The Olympian gods fled to Egypt in 
fear of the monstrous, serpent-legged Typhon, and tried to 
hide by taking the forms of animals. Zeus, taking the form of 
a ram, became Amon; Hermes, in ibis form, became Thoth; 
and so on. Thus the ancient Greeks explained the similari-
ties they saw between their gods and the Egyptians’. Typhon 
himself they identified with Set. When the Followers of Set 
decided to convert Greeks and Romans to their faith, they 
found these divine transpositions already in place.
The Cult of Typhon began in Alexandria and spread 
through the Roman Empire. After the destruction of the 
Alexandria temple in the Purge of Baybars, a shrine in 
Naples became the cult’s Founding Temple. Although the 
cult steadily declined in western Europe after the fall of the 
West Roman Empire, it enjoyed a brisk revival in the Re-
naissance. The Cult of Typhon Trismegistus still dominates 
Setite affairs in Europe.
Typhonists employ a particularly elaborate system of 
cults within cults. At first, new recruits believe that they 
join a cult devoted to Bacchus, Mars or Pluto. (The modern 
neopagan movement lets such cults recruit quite openly.) 
Each god represents one aspect of Set: the bringer of ecstatic 
madness, the warrior and the lord of the dead. Eventually, 
promising initiates learn that all three gods represent aspects 
of Typhon, the true object of their worship. Only acolytes 
who show faultless devotion and fully imbibe the Typhonist 
doctrines of debauchery learn that Typhon himself is but 
another mask and receive the more spiritual doctrines of 
gnosis and overcoming desire. Many Typhonist Setites never 
quite grasp that secret doctrine, and so remain mere tempters 
and hedonists. The cult’s high priests would consider them 
failures, except they have eternity to learn their lesson and 
get it right. The priests do not force the true doctrine on 
vampires who are not yet ready to accept it.
The Typhonist temple in Naples is called the Cave of 
Apples. Several centuries ago, Alexandrian Setites rebuilt 
the old Typhoeum, but the Cave of Apples remains the cult’s 
official Founding Temple.
Like many Setites, the Typhonists involve themselves in 
every aspect of the vice trade. In the last ten years, several Ty-
phonist shrines began sponsoring gladiatorial pit-fights, where 
jaded Kindred and kine could thrill to real terror, blood and 
death. The games appall Setites who spent centuries keeping 
a low profile. Nevertheless, the pit-fights pull in big money, 
strip away the audience’s pretensions of morality and provide 
splendid blackmail opportunities (hidden cameras record the 
audience at every fight). Before each night’s fighting, all these 
distinguished Kindred and kine hear a priest invoke Typhon 
Set’s blessing on the games. So what if the audience doesn’t 
take it seriously? Their mere presence at a Setite ceremony 
draws them closer to the Dark God. Anyone who…feels 
something…finds a convenient chapel next to the arena.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
47
Famous Founding Temples
Several other Setite temples are old and prestigious 
enough that many Setites know their names. Most of 
these are Founding Temples themselves, although their 
cults differ only in minor details.
Ombos needs no other name than the town it lies 
beneath. This shrine is supposedly the Founding Temple, 
the one established by Set Himself. The sultan Baybars 
destroyed the Ombos temple. A cabal of Setites secretly 
rebuilt it late in the 19th century, but never told anyone 
except a few ancient Hierophants. Pilgrims and investiga-
tors who go to the village of Komm Ombo never find the 
Setite temple; instead they find a well-known but ruined 
temple to Set and Horus. Ancient, powerful magic hides 
the true Setite temple from everyone except the people 
invited by the priests.
The House of the Eclipse is buried beneath Cairo. 
Eclipsan doctrine insists that for the Setites to become 
gods themselves they must kill the sun-god Ra. Clan ru-
mor holds that the House of the Eclipse guards the clan’s 
greatest trove of magic and occult lore.
The Red Temple of Thebes and the Garden of Asps 
beneath Memphis have glorious pasts but are now nearly 
deserted. Both cities are ruined capitals of ancient Egypt. 
A few elder priests remain to guard the temples’ archives 
of lore and magic artifacts.
The Crocodile Temple in the Faiyum is the Founding 
Temple of the cult of Sobek. Like the ancient cult, the 
Temple keeps a pool of sacred crocodiles ornamented with 
golden bangles — but these crocodiles are ghouled. One 
crocodile is said to be over a thousand years old, and to 
give oracles from Set’s childe, Sobek.
The Labyrinth of Bones lies beneath the city of Tunis. 
The Setites tiled its walls, floors and ceilings with human 
bones: the dead of Carthage, looted from Tunis’ graveyards 
for 2000 years. A persistent clan rumor says that the Laby-
rinth of Bones holds several Brujah Methuselahs, excavated 
from Carthage and kept in torpor through stakes.
The Descending Aerie is an enormous cavern near 
Tangier, in Morocco. Over the centuries, the Moroccan 
Setites carved the walls of the central cavern so that the 
constant wind howls like a human voice. When the wind 
blows just right, it hums out a hymn to Set.
The Temple of Dogs is much younger than these others, 
but dominates Setite affairs in the British Isles. The temple 
is a joint venture by the Taweretan and Eclipsan cults, 
located on the Isle of Dogs in London (once a notorious 
abode of prostitution).


Clanbook: Setite
48
Setites of West Africa: 
Children of Damballah
The Setites spread through sub-Saharan Africa long ago, 
establishing new cults by syncretizing Set with various tribal 
gods. The Cult of Damballah, based in Nigeria and Benin, is 
a typical example of these cults. The Damballans keep their 
Founding Temple in the town of Oyo, once the capital of a 
powerful Yoruba kingdom. West Africa, however, is a long and 
difficult way from Egypt. The West African Setites diverged 
greatly from their parent clan.
The Yoruban Setites worship Set in the person of 
Damballah-Wedo, a Yoruban snake-god of the Earth and 
darkness. Damballah was not an especially good choice, since 
the Yoruba regard him as a benign creator-god himself, in 
partnership with his wife, the Rainbow Serpent Aïda-Wedo. 
The Damballan Setites tried to show Damballah in a more 
sinister, less Demiurgic light by emphasizing his connection 
with the dead. Unfortunately, the cult leaders decided to 
keep the identification of Damballah with Set as a “Great 
Mystery” that only senior initiates would learn. After centuries 
of isolation and High Priests entering torpor, Yoruba culture 
washed away most of the Theophidian doctrine.
By now only a few Damballan elders, who achieved the 
highest initiations of their cult, remember their connection to 
Set and Egypt. Other Damballans believe that their supernatural 
powers and undead weaknesses come from Damballah-Wedo 
and Aïda-Wedo. In their myth, Set was a king who stole divine 
power by cutting out and eating Damballah’s heart. This was 
not actually fatal to the god, but it made him and his consort 
terribly angry. Aïda’s curse banished the king from life and the 
day, while Damballah’s curse banished him from the peace of 
the grave, but the two gods could not take back the stolen 
magic power. The king, however, could share it with others 
who accepted the curse as its price.
Despite the legend of a curse, Damballans revere the 
Serpent and the Rainbow as the source of their power, with 
Set forming a junior third in their cult’s trinity. The Dam-
ballans emphasize the liberating madness of ecstatic trance, 
achieved through drumming, dancing and drugged blood. 
Like other West African native religions, the gods may 
possess entranced worshippers — not just Damballah, Aïda 
and Set, but many other Yoruban gods as well. The Cult of 
Damballah promises that in time, initiates may gain enough 
spiritual power to become gods themselves.
The Followers of Set restored contact with the Damballans 
early this century. All attempts to steer the Damballans back to 
what passes for Setite orthodoxy failed completely. The Dambal-
lans gladly learn every bit of Setite and Egyptian legend they 
can, but re-work it to fit with their West African religion rather 
than vice-versa. The Cohort of Wepwawet’s revival crusade 
simply offended the Damballans; they broke off all embassies 
with the Theophidians. Some Setite strategists worry that the 
Damballans will join the Sabbat like their Caribbean branch, 
the Serpents of the Light. So far, however, the Damballans 
show no more interest in the Sabbat (or for that matter the 
Camarilla) than in the Theophidians. Whatever their plans 
and ambitions, they are limited to West Africa — for now.
Serpents of the Light
The Setite antitribu of the Sabbat reject Theophidian 
doctrine in all its forms. The Cobras accept the myth of 
Caine as the First Vampire, which irritates more orthodox 
Setites. All Setites believe that their god-king’s return, with 
the awakening of the other Antediluvians, will destroy the 
world as we know it. Theophidians consider this desirable; 
the Serpents of the Light emphatically do not! From the or-
thodox point of view, the Cobras have sold out to the Aeons.
Perhaps the antitribu could reconcile with some Setite 
cults. Some Followers accept the practicality of cooperating 
with other supernatural powers — for now — and the mili-
tantly orthodox Cohort of Wepwawet lost most of its influence. 
Only 20-some years have passed since the Cobras’ founders 
joined the Sabbat, however, and great bitterness remains.
The Serpents of the Light began as a Caribbean branch of 
the West African Setites. According to the Cobras’ oral tradition, 
the first Setites came to the West Indies more than 300 years ago, 
in the heyday of the slave trade. They say that a mortal cultist, 
captured and sold as a slave, became a sailor and returned to 
Africa. He pleaded with his undead masters to succor his fellow 
tribesmen who were suffering and dying on the sugar plantations 
and mills. The elders of the cult agreed that the cause was just. 
One vampire-priest smuggled himself across the Atlantic on a 
slave ship; it arrived in Hispaniola with the slaves freed and the 
white men in chains. The great priest led a furious slave revolt. 
The Europeans crushed the revolt — but not the cult that led 
the revolt, nor the vampire priest. The great priest now sleeps 
in the earth, but when he awakens he will lead all the faithful 
back to Africa. His lineage preserves the cult until that night.
The vampires of the islands know several versions of this 
legend. One vampire says the priest came from the Yoruba tribal 
nation; others say he was Ga, or Mende, or Kongo. Different 
vampires give the priest’s name as Chiyidi (orisha of nightmares 
in Santería) or Sousou Pannan (a wicked loa in Voudon) or a 
half-dozen other names. On the other hand, other Caribbean 
Setites argue that the whole story is a self-serving, “politically 
correct,” modern invention. They suggest that the Cobras’ 
ancestors came to the Caribbean as refugees from home-town 
power struggles, or to lord it over blood cults of plantation slaves.
Nor should anyone take the names of the Cobras’ found-
ers too seriously. The Serpents of the Light take a slipshod 
attitude to vampiric genealogy. They freely construct “family 
trees” incorporating any loas or famous vampires they admire 
(including vampires of other clans) or famous mortals who 
never became vampires. A Cobra will reliably report his im-
mediate sire; the rest of his ancestry is pure fabrication. For 
the Serpents of the Light, however, these made-up genealo-
gies tell of the vampire’s aspirations and ideals. Indeed, the 


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
49
Serpents of the Light consider bloodline obsession rather 
unhealthy: as vampires they possess no real families. They 
think that vampires who pretend that the transmission of the 
Blood equals mortal descent should stop fooling themselves.
Doctrines
Until recently, the Serpents of the Light had very little 
contact with the rest of their clan. Their cult began as an offshoot 
of the West African Cult of Damballah, but over the centuries 
its doctrines drifted even further from core Setite beliefs.
The Serpents of the Light believe in a supreme Creator 
deity, but (like other African and Voodoo faiths) also believe 
that the Supreme Deity does not interact with the world in any 
way. The Damballans have no quarrel with him. The Voodoo 
religions say that after death, powerful people can become gods; 
the Cobras want to do this in the flesh, rather than as spirits. If 
one of them becomes powerful enough to kill Damballah and 
take his place as ruler of the earth’s dark places, so much the 
better. They do not believe that the Creator would stop them.
The Cobras borrow gods from other Afro-Caribbean cults. 
From Palo Mayombe they take Zarabanda, the messenger-god 
who provides access to the spirit world (often identified with 
the Voudon god Legba); El Cristo Negro, the king of the dead 
(similar to Voudon’s famous Baron Samedi, but more dignified); 
and La Madre de la Luna, goddess of the Moon and the sea 
(identified with Voudon’s Yemanya). Santería provides Chango, 
god of fire, lightning and kingship; and Osanyin, god of herbs 
and the forest. Haitian Voudon supplies Damballah the Serpent 
and his wife Aïda-Wedo, goddess of the rainbow; Ogoun, god 
of war and metal; and many other gods. Cobras refer to gods as 
Loa, Saints or Mystéres and syncretize them with Catholic saints 
or other Christian figures. For instance, they identify La Madre 
de la Luna with the Virgin Mary and Chango with St. Barbara.
The bloodline-cult’s leaders have no problem with the 
myth of Caine. They recognize him as the king from their 
own origin myth, although they also cast Set in the same 
role. The Cobras interpret other Antediluvians as brothers 
and sisters of the king, who persuaded him to share his stolen 
power but now seek his death and fight amongst themselves. 
The Cobras accept that the Antediluvians really exist and 
will devour all their descendants when they awaken. Since 
they do not want to become an ancient vampire’s dinner, they 
help the Sabbat hunt the Antediluvians and their presumed 
minions, including their parent clan.
Organization
Following the practices of both the ancient Setite cult 
and many African faiths, the Serpents of the Light cult has 
many levels of initiation. Some initiations come to those 
who master Serpentis, Obfuscate or Presence to a particular 
level. Others are purely social, attained by offering sufficient 
gifts to the bloodline’s elders.
At each level, the initiate learns new “secrets.” Most of 
these are fairly meaningless: passwords that let them recognize 
fellow initiates, magic charms (of no real power) against bad luck 


Clanbook: Setite
50
or their enemies’ witchcraft, and odd little scraps of mythology. 
For instance, one such ‘mystery’ is why they call themselves the 
Serpents of the Light. A Cobra who attains the 5th initiation 
learns that they take their name from the Milky Way, which they 
describe as a great shining serpent encircling the Universe. (The 
name has nothing to do with their rivalry with their parent clan; 
the Caribbean Setites became Serpents of the Light centuries ago.)
The four elders who hold the highest initiation are called 
the empereurs; the last three initiations come only with the 
consent of all the empereurs together. The leader of a Cobra 
cell is called the president, while a member in good standing is 
called a bête sereine or “Serene Beast.” A single cell is called 
a shanpwel. When a new cell forms, an empereur sends a 
miniature coffin emblazoned with a silver serpent encircling 
a golden star, the madoule d’estoile, for their shrine.
Daitya: The Holy Blasphemers
The Daitya lineage has two stories of its origin. Some 
scholarly Daitya claim that their lineage descends from Fol-
lowers of Set who traveled east in Hellenistic times, following 
the armies of Alexander. These Setites expanded through 
the Indian subcontinent. They adopted Shiva the Destroyer, 
Rudra the god of storms and hunters, and the serpent-demon 
of drought — called Vritra — as the local analogs of Set. 
Eventually the cult of Shiva completely absorbed the cult of 
Rudra, and Vritra simply dropped out of Setite practice. These 
Indian Setites called themselves “Daitya” after a legendary 
race of cosmic demons who fought the Hindu gods.
Other Daitya do not deny that Greco-Egyptian Setites 
reached India. They insist, however, that their clan already 
stalked the Indian night millennia before Alexander — in 
fact, before the Aryan invaders whose legends form the sacred 
Vedas. The vampire clan gave their name to the mythical 
demons. These Daitya only concede that the Greco-Egyptian 
Setites renewed contact between the clan’s eastern and west-
ern wings. As for which wing came first…well, who knows?
Whatever their origin, the Daitya became one of the most 
exalted vampire clans of India. Indian vampires combine the 
ideas of caste and clan: a vampire’s lineage defines her status 
relative to other clans, and even the range of occupations 
and activities she may pursue. Indian vampires see nothing 
strange about such restrictions, because Indian mortals fol-
low the same system! Neither the Muslim invasions of past 
centuries nor British colonial rule nor the current govern-
ment’s attempts to abolish caste significantly disrupted the 
caste system. Already in the World of Darkness, the “caste-
rejecting,” secularized Indians of government and business 
show signs of forming unofficial new castes of their own….
The Daitya form a Brahmin caste of priests and magicians. 
Humility is not among their virtues: Brahminical doctrine 
makes the priest-magicians equal partners to the gods in 
maintaining cosmic and social order. When a Brahmin cor-
rectly performs the complex ritual of sacrifice, the gods must 
attend and grant his prayer. Various purity taboos separate the 
castes. Brahmins observe the most stringent taboos of all in 
their food, personal habits, and even who may approach them. 
Each caste has its own specific duties, that would defile any 
one of a different caste. In the Golden Age at the beginning 
of the world, everyone performed their caste duties without 
fault. In these benighted times, too many people do not.
Doctrines
Most Hindu vampires believe that they are demons. Their 
crimes in their past lives preordained their Embrace. Even de-
mons, however, have their castes and caste duties. The Daitya 
see their caste duty as a strange inverse of mortal Brahminism. 
As demons, they must fight the gods and strive to overthrow 
the moral order of the world. As Brahmins, however, they must 
strive to keep their fellow vampires within their own particular 
caste duties as murderers, tricksters, desecrators of sacred rites 
and all the other abhorrent roles assigned to demons. If a 
vampire suffers Final Death, but he did his demonic caste duty 
well, he might win a higher place in his next life.
The Daitya worship Shiva the Destroyer, who forms one third 
of the supreme Hindu triad along with Brahma the Creator and 
Vishnu the Preserver. Enigmatic Shiva rules over all the destruc-
tive forces of the cosmos, from natural disasters to the flash of 
enlightenment that shatters a mystic’s ignorance. Sex, death and 
madness fall under Shiva’s purview. He roams in the company of 
ghosts and demons. When he opens the third eye in the middle 
of his forehead, he annihilates whatever he sees. His wife Parvati, 
or Shakti, also takes the form of dreadful Kali, the goddess who 
devours all life that new life may come. She gives her name to 
the Kali Yuga, the Final Age of the world before its destruction. 
When the world reaches an absolute nadir of depravity — when 
humanity rejects all laws, morals and caste duties — Shiva will 
look upon the entire Universe with his third eye. Then Brahma 
the Creator can bring forth a new world, purified and without 
sin…and the whole cycle will start all over again.
The Daitya strive to bring about this happy consummation. 
They encourage mortals to violate every sort of religious taboo. 
They focus on the laws of Hinduism, but as each religion gains 
adherents in the Indian subcontinent the Daitya study it, interpret 
it in Hindu terms and analyze its potential for blaspheme. For 
instance, Daitya theologians interpret Jesus Christ as an avatar 
of Vishnu: like the god’s avatar Krishna, they say, Christ taught 
a system of reverence for a god-man as a way to achieve union 
with the supreme Godhead. A dedicated Daitya would scour the 
Bible for moral commandments, and tempt a Christian to break 
as many of them as possible. The vampire would lead a Muslim 
to a different but equally appropriate set of sins, a Buddhist to 
that faith’s crimes and blasphemies, and so on.
This does not prevent devout Daitya from following their 
own versions of Hindu purity taboos and austerities. A Daitya 
will not feed from the same vessel as a lower-caste vampire. 
They meditate, fast and perform other ascetic practices to 
gain mystical merit, just as any other Hindu could. After all, 
they aren’t stupid. Not only will such austerities help anyone 


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
51
gain a better place in her next incarnation, they grant magical 
power in this existence. According to Hindu legend, ascetic 
demons have won so much power that they bullied the gods 
themselves. Some Daitya fully believe these legends; they say 
that the first vampires are on the verge of attaining just such 
cosmic power as a result of meditations lasting millennia.
Organization
The vampires of India hold no truck with sects in the 
political sense that Western vampires use. Indian vampire sects 
truly are religious communities. The Daitya claim leadership 
of all vampires who worship Shiva. Other vampires, especially 
those of the “Pariah” castes, dispute that claim! Nevertheless, 
their intrinsic rank as Brahmins grants all Daitya considerable 
authority among India’s undead.
Like the Followers of Set, Daitya childer usually belonged 
to their sire’s blood cult and probably served her as a Retainer 
before the Embrace. Unlike India’s other Brahmin vampires, 
the Daitya freely Embrace mortals from non-Brahmin castes. 
The Daitya believe that the ‘Third Birth’ into undeath su-
persedes mortal caste limitations.
Also like Western Setites, a Daitya’s haven is also a per-
sonal shrine. Even the younger Daitya usually insist upon a 
comfortable subterranean haven with a separate chamber for 
their shrine to Shiva; a multi-room basement apartment will 
do. Elder Daitya often lair in genuine underground temples 
hewn from solid stone, with pillared halls, mural paintings or 
carvings, and a sumptuous statue of Shiva himself. Although 
the Daitya may hide the portions of the temple set aside for 
vampires and their blood cult, the complex as a whole generally 
includes a public shrine to Shiva as well: in India, the Daitya do 
not need to hide their worship from other vampires. A Daitya 
temple could be located virtually anywhere, from a jungle-clad 
mountain to beneath a teeming city’s streets, as long as people 
live nearby to sustain the vampires.
The Daitya organize in coteries centered on a temple. The 
most important bond, however, is that to one’s guru-Mentor — 
usually one’s sire, but not always. A Daitya remains subservient to 
her Mentor until she demonstrably surpasses him in some super-
natural achievement, such as mastering a discipline the Mentor 
does not know, or creating a powerful Thaumaturgic ritual. This 
may well take centuries. (Even the great Sundervere, the world’s 
most notorious Daitya, hints on occasion that he is a mere acolyte 
to one greater and wiser than himself.) Each temple has complete 
autonomy, though the oldest temples (with the oldest and most 
powerful high priests) naturally carry the most prestige.
The various Daitya lineages do not vary in any way reflected 
in game mechanics; they do not have a bloodline analogous to 
the “Warrior Setites.” Some temples and their associated broods 
and coteries emphasize development of particular Disciplines, 
including out-of-clan Disciplines, or Paths of Thaumaturgy. The 
Daitya elders only treat one lineage as a “bloodline,” and that’s 
for religious reasons. Several centuries ago the Naktanchara 
lineage converted to Buddhism and rejected caste divisions. 
For this the assembled High Priests of the Daitya temples, in a 
unique display of unanimity, declared the Naktanchara forever 
outcaste and defiled, unto the last generation. It would seem 
that even professional blasphemers have their limits.
Other Notes
Appearance: Daitya come from the Indian subcontinent; 
therefore, Daitya all look like pale Indians, Sri Lankans, 
Pakistani, and so on. Skin tone ranges from swarthy to brown, 
while nearly all Daitya have black hair. In public, they often 
wear stylish suites or saris like well-off Indian businessmen or 
their wives. In private they often wear priestly robes. Most 
Daitya wear the Shivaite cultic mark — a “V” on the forehead 
with the point at the bridge of the nose. Hundreds of millions 
of mortal Indians follow the same custom.
Character Creation: Daitya care little for Physical attri-
butes, but care a great deal about Mental and Social Attributes. 
They tend to have formidable intellectual and communications 
Abilities, as befits their role as priest and teacher. Natures and 
Demeanors both tend toward the scholarly, the mystical and 
the conservative, although some combinations may seem quite 
unlikely to Western ways of thinking (for instance, a Deviant 
Demeanor covering a Traditionalist or Conformist Nature.) 
Retainers and Herds of cultists are nigh-universal but Daitya 
have less interest than their Setite cousins in building networks 
of Allies, Contacts and Influence. The Daitya practice their 
own versions of the Paths of Typhon and Sutekh, though in 
game terms most neonates follow Humanity.
Clan Disciplines: Obfuscate, Presence, Serpentis
Weaknesses: The Daitya share their Western cousins’ 
special susceptibility to sunlight and other bright light.
Tlacique: Servants of the Sun
When the Conquistadors came to Mexico, the Kindred of 
Europe came with them. They found cities as large and prosper-
ous as any in the Old World. The Kindred also found vampires 
already in residence: Nosferatu, Gangrel… and a whole new 
lineage not hinted at in the most ancient lore. Did the New 
World also present a new clan? These “Tlacique” claimed 
descent from Tezcatlipoca, god of night and black magic, and 
many of them were very old and very powerful. The Kindred 
assumed that Tezcatlipoca must be a Methuselah and the 
Tlacique a very old bloodline — from the Gangrel, perhaps, 
or the Followers of Set. Whatever their origin, the Tlacique 
did not merely influence the native civilizations. They ruled 
as gods. The Tlacique shaped the mortals’ whole civilization 
around cults of blood sacrifice.
The Tlacique intrigued the Kindred, to say the least. 
The Old World vampires had not wielded such open domin-
ion since Carthage. Each autonomous clique of Tlacique, 
consisting of just one elder vampire and his brood, ruled 
one city. As a city’s fortunes rose and fell, so did the prestige 
of its ruling clique. The Aztec Empire grew from a triple 
alliance of three cities and their cliques, who dominated 
most of the other cities and cliques of Mexico.


Clanbook: Setite
52
At first the mortal Aztecs treated the Spaniards as 
honored (if dangerous) guests. The Tlacique began cautious 
negotiations with the Kindred. The Camarilla might have 
gained an eighth clan, if not for mortal greed.
Some cliques saw the Spanish as a way to break Aztec 
power and liberate their cities. As history records, several tribes 
and cities rebelled against the Aztecs and joined the Spanish 
cause. They, and the Tlacique, horribly misjudged the Spaniards’ 
power and intentions. The living and undead Mexicans also did 
not expect the indiscriminate slaughter by smallpox, a disease 
never seen before in the New World. The Aztec Empire col-
lapsed and the Spanish took everything. The mortal Mexicans 
became serfs, worked until they dropped to feed the Spaniards’ 
insatiable appetite for gold. Rightly or not, the Tlacique blamed 
the Kindred for the debacle. The Spanish might have crushed 
the mortal Mexicans, but among the undead the war continued.
Then the Sabbat came and the Tlacique made their 
greatest mistake. The Tlacique decided that the enemies of 
their enemies were their friends: they allied with the Sabbat 
against the Camarilla. When the Jyhad ended, however, the 
Tlacique and Sabbat finally took a good look at each other.
Their erstwhile allies repulsed the Tlacique. The Sabbat 
enthusiastically copied many Tlacique rituals of blood and 
death, but they completely missed their meaning. The Sabbat 
delved into murder as a ritual of celebration, rather than a 
ceremony of faith. The Tlacique guarded a divine order; the 
Sabbat’s ideals opposed that very order.
Conversely, the Lasombra leaders of the Sabbat still saw 
themselves as Catholic (in a perverse and twisted way) and 
fully supported the mortal Spanish conquest and attempts to 
Christianize the natives. The Tlacique could serve as allies 
of convenience, but they were still heathens.
The Tlacique fought the Sabbat in turn, but they had lost 
too much power and could not change with the times. The 
Sabbat virtually destroyed the clan and diablerized its elders. 
Lasombra priests carefully baptized each staked elder before 
the diablerie, so the vampire would meet Final Death in a 
state of grace. The Tlacique survived only in remote villages, 
or by fleeing into the trackless jungles of South America.
Centuries later, less than 200 Tlacique exist, scattered 
from Baja to Tierra del Fuego. Reluctantly, the remaining 
Tlacique have begun coming together in the interests of 
unity. They hope to rebuild their power, locate sleeping elders 
missed by the Sabbat and eventually retake their homelands. 
The war has already begun.
Doctrines
The Tlacique believed that their descent from Tezcatlipoca 
entitled them to set themselves over other vampires as well as 
over mortals. In Mexico, they succeeded; the Peruvian branch of 
the bloodline had to compromise more with the native Nosferatu 
and Gangrel. In every culture where the Tlacique held power, 
however, they pushed the native religion toward increased 
human sacrifice. The Aztecs, for instance, routinely sacrificed 
tens of thousands of victims each year, ripping their hearts out 
to feed the Sun — while those Tlacique who could stay awake 
for the daytime ceremonies waited in hidden chambers beneath 
the altars, and enjoyed blood feasts of epic proportions.
The Aztecs, Incas, Mayans and other peoples sincerely 
believed that without these offerings of hearts, the Sun would 
die and the world die with it. The Tlacique believed that they 
played a role in this cosmic drama as well. Their rituals and 
consumption of blood preserved the Sun through his nightly 
death. Unlike the Followers of Set, their divine progenitor 
was never cast out. Tezcatlipoca was an obstreperous god who 
twice destroyed the world in fits of pique, but that was just the 
sort of thing gods did. In the same way, the Tlacique permitted 
themselves to use their divine powers for vindictive ends, cruelly 
destroying anyone who offended them, because gods had that 
privilege. Before the Europeans came, the Tlacique followed a 
distinctive Path of Enlightenment with some aspects resembling 
the Paths of Night, Blood and Power and the Inner Voice. The 
destruction of their cultural milieu rendered this Path impossible 
to follow, however, so all Tlacique now use Humanity. Like their 
Sabbat enemies, they seldom achieve high ratings.
Organization
The bloodline has not yet stabilized into a new social or-
der. This distresses the elders, who fondly remember the highly 
structured life and unlife of the pre-Columbian cities. The juniors 
must revere their elders, if only for their experience at surviving 
in Sabbat territory. On the other hand, the elders are woefully 
out of their depth in coping with the modern world; even the 
ones who didn’t spend centuries in torpor hidden in rural regions 
where change came slowly. The real authority in the bloodline 
passed to the ancillae, vampires old enough to gain some power 
and prove their competence, but who aren’t yet totally befuddled 
by a swiftly-changing world. The ancillae decide policy; neonates 
handle the details dealing with really contemporary stuff; and 
the elders give their blessing, teach Disciplines to their juniors 
and perform tasks requiring greater magical power.
Originally all Tlacique came from the priestly caste of 
Pre-Columbian society — the cream of their intelligentsia. 
That has not been feasible for some centuries. Instead, the 
remaining Tlacique Embraced village folk who carried on native 
traditions of folk magic, such as peasant sorcerers, shamans and 
rain-makers. Less than a dozen of the pre-Columbian priestly 
Tlacique — the true elders of their bloodline — remain active 
(although they include some dismayingly powerful blood sorcer-
ers). Ancillae and neonates are mostly native people as well, 
with a few mestizos. In the last 20 years, the Tlacique expanded 
their range of recruits to include native-rights guerrillas and 
anyone else they think might help their cause.
Rural Tlacique dwell in houses (or huts) with well-made 
cellars. Those who master Earth Meld need no haven at all. 
Urban Tlacique take whatever haven they can get. The elders 
encourage younger clan members to keep products of native 
handicrafts in their havens if at all possible.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
53
Learning their form of Thaumaturgy automatically raises a 
Tlacique’s status in the clan. A Tlacique who lacks Thaumaturgy 
can never win more than one dot of Status. Striking a blow against 
the Sabbat brings prestige. Reviving interest in traditional art, 
customs or religion in mortal society also confers merit, but true 
Status comes only through seniority, demonstrated divine power 
(Disciplines and Thaumaturgy) and success in war.
Other Notes
Appearance: Elder Tlacique are all Central American 
natives. Ancillae might be mestizos. The elders recently autho-
rized looking beyond Central America to Central and South 
American immigrant communities in the United States. (For 
instance, Dallas, Texas now has a neighborhood of Guatemala 
Mayans — and a resident Tlacique.) All Tlacique try to blend in 
wherever they go, so their Sabbat enemies won’t recognize them.
Character Creation: The Tlacique look for self-reliant 
people, either in their Demeanor or their Abilities. Neonates 
must survive in very hostile country. This conservative clan 
does not like rebels or troublemakers, and Natures and De-
meanors reflect this.
A Tlacique neonate’s primary Attributes depend on why 
his sire selected him. Former shamans, sorcerers and such ilk 
have primary Social or Mental Attributes (and notably high 
Charisma, since their “magical powers” are really the power 
of suggestion and knowledge of psychology, weather, herbal 
medicine and other such fields). A guerrilla Embraced as a pure 
soldier, however, will probably emphasize Physical Attributes.
The Tlacique know their own version of blood magic, 
called Nahuallotl. This is their most popular out-of-clan 
Discipline. Most Tlacique try to learn blood magic, so it is 
quite acceptable for a starting character to obtain a dot of 
Thaumaturgy through Freebie Points.
Clan Disciplines: Obfuscate, Presence, Protean. Ser-
pentis is unknown among the Tlacique.
Weakness: Although their lineage cannot be traced, 
the Tlacique really are a Setite bloodline, for they share the 
Setite weakness. Sunlight inflicts an extra two health levels of 
damage on a Tlacique, and other sources of bright light (such 
as magnesium flares or spotlights) impose a -1 die penalty on 
dice pools for all tasks.
Warrior Setites
Setite clan mythology holds that all Warrior Setites de-
scend from Set’s childe, Wepwawet. This is not literally true, 
but rather a statement of an ideal. In fact, Warrior Setites are 
simply Serpents who choose to emphasize their divine forebear’s 
martial aspects and fight their clan’s enemies. Some Setites 
speak of a special Path of Enlightenment for Warrior Setites, 
but (as with the Ecstatic Setites) most modern Serpents regard 
this Path as a mere attitude or approach to the Path of Typhon 
Set, without the depth and detail to qualify as a Path of its 
own. Many Warrior Setites actually follow Humanity: they 
justify their killings through religious devotion. A few Warrior 
Setites learn the Path of Honorable Accord from contacts in the 
Sabbat, and seek to spread this Path through their bloodline.
Would-be Warrior Setites labor to develop Potence at the 
expense of Obfuscate. The progeny of such Setites, themselves 
trained in warrior ways, become Warrior Setites by blood and 
pass their affinity for Potence to their own childer. On the 
other hand, a Warrior Setite childe not trained in martial 
ways may become a normal Setite.
More than half of the Cohort of Wepwawet consists of 
Warrior Setites. At its height, the Cohort claimed most of the 
Warrior Setites in the Western and Middle Eastern world. Since 
then, Warrior Setites turned to other cults, or formed tiny, one-
coterie cults of their own. The Cult of Typhon Trismegistus also 
contains an important minority of Warrior Setites who devote 
their worship to Typhon Set in the person of the Roman god 
Mars. Other “orthodox” Setite cults routinely include a few 
Warrior Setites, but these martial Serpents hold no special status.
The Serpents of the Light do not contain any Warrior 
Setites — or at least not yet. Among the many little-known 
Setite cults of Africa, however, a few glorify war-gods whom 
they identify with Set, producing lineages who would consider 
themselves “Warrior Setites.” The Daitya of India and the 
New World Tlacique do not produce Warrior Setites at all.
	
	
*	
 *	
 *	
Opinions about 
Others
Dear childe:
Your plea for knowledge of the so-called “Cainite” race 
gratifies me no end. In these frantic, degenerate times, so few 
seek out the wisdom and experience of their elders! I fear the 
lust for novelty and instant gratification penetrates even our 
own kind. The eager curiosity and sober respect conveyed by 
your missive, however, renews my confidence in our cult, our 
clan and our purpose. Thank Set, not all the childer of these 
latter nights are too busy and modern to listen to an old scholar. 
(Although, it would seem you are too busy to learn Latin and 
read the treatise I wrote on this subject some 400 years ago).
Your question regarding a shared origin of the Setite and 
Cainite races is not entirely naive. Our undeniable resemblances 
indicate similar origins — but not, I stress, a shared origin. An 
astute observer of all the manifold vampires must notice our 
differences as well as our similarities. The other (and need I 
add, lesser) breeds of vampire suffer the effects of bright light 
somewhat less than we. On the other hand, each lineage pos-
sesses certain weaknesses and foibles that mark them as one 
Blood, just as our abilities mark us as fellow childer of Set.
Each of these other lineages claims descent from a 
single founder, a mortal who became the first vampire of his 
or her kind. On this, we have no cause to doubt the legends 
of the other lineages: neither that each “clan” has a unique 


Clanbook: Setite
54
progenitor, nor that said ancestor was originally mortal — 
not divine, as in our case. Most of the other legends of clan 
founders, whom the others call “Antediluvians,” are fabrica-
tions sanctified by millennia of repetition.
The other vampires’ shared name of Cainite is the first 
and greatest lie. They base their myth on the Biblical account 
of Cain(e), whom God cursed for the murder of his brother 
Abel. According to the Cainites, this curse was nothing less 
than to become the First Vampire. Caine passed on his curse 
to three other mortals, who passed it in turn to several more. 
These wretches, in turn, sired all the various breeds of vampires.
I trust you shall recognize the inconsistencies in this myth. 
Eternal life makes, shall we say, a peculiar punishment for a 
murderer. Forcing him to consume blood and thus repeat his 
crime again and again is idiotic. Making the curse transmissible 
to innocent people smacks of pure madness. To explain the 
differences among the various breeds of vampires, the myth 
complicates itself with accounts that Caine himself cursed 
various Antediluvians for ill-defined offenses, and that these 
curses transmitted themselves to the founders’ descendants. The 
legends go on to speak of a First City established by Caine; a 
Second City of the Antediluvians; the biblical Deluge; wars; 
and various other catastrophes provoked by crimes against sires.
Self-proclaimed Cainite scholars waste rivers of ink 
exploring and explaining this cycle of myths. Waste, I say, 
because our most ancient temples in Egypt preserve eyewitness 
accounts of the myth’s genesis. Not all these accounts come 
from members of our own divine lineage. The legend of Caine 
the First Vampire dates back no earlier than 2000 BCE. A 
cabal of elder vampires (millennia old even then, and possibly 
including some of the Antediluvians) concocted this spurious 
shared inheritance. This was part of an attempt to regiment their 
rebellious descendants — hence the repeated warnings of dire 
punishments for disobeying one’s elders. They tried to create 
an early version of the Camarilla, though with little success.
No doubt you wonder if the truth of the other clans’ 
origins is known, or knowable. Unfortunately, we possess 
several accounts of the origin of vampirism (in ourselves and 
the other clans). Personally, I suspect that the legends about 
the origins of vampirism are just as metaphorical as the ancient 
Egyptians’ numerous and conflicting myths about the origin 
of the world. I can merely tell you which legend I prefer.
One of our legends says that Set the god became Set the 
vampire by drinking the waters of Duat, the Egyptian nether-
world’s version of the river Styx, after his near-fatal wounding 
by his nephew Horus. I trust that you have heard this legend; 
if not, many priests know the story. Fewer know the sequel.
Set’s return from death terrified the Aeons, the powers 
whom we name as the Egyptian gods. Set could walk the 
earth corporeally, something the Aeons could no longer do. 
Even worse, Set could confer some of his divine power on 
mortals and make them undead demigods. The Aeons feared 
that Set would take the world from them.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
55
They fought back by creating vampire demigods of their 
own. Ra commanded Seker, the god of darkness and eternal 
death, to take water from Duat and bless it. Then Ra poured the 
water into twelve bowls and gave it to twelve gods, who each 
added their own immortal blood. Each god chose a mortal and 
made him drink the divine blood and deathly water, turning 
him or her into an undead god like Set. The gods then bade 
their twelve apostles to sire childer, even as Set did, and lead 
them in war against our founder.
May I repeat: I regard this story as at least partly metaphori-
cal. I do believe, however, that certain spiritual Powers, whom 
we call Aeons and give the names of ancient gods, cursed twelve 
mortals with tainted demi-divinity. I believe that these twelve 
became the Antediluvians and sired twelve “Cainite” clans.
The “Kindred” thus are Twelve and One. This pattern 
endures through the millennia. Clans and their founders may 
suffer destruction, but a new Antediluvian always replaces the 
one destroyed; the iron law of the Aeons demands it. You may see 
that law in the heavens themselves as you walk the night, for the 
Aeons bound the clans to the Great Dodecad of the Universe, 
the Zodiac. Just as the heavens move but do not change, so the 
clans must remain Twelve forever — until the ending of the world.
Know, then, the names of the Twelve created to oppose 
us, the gods who gave them power, and their place in the 
Celestial Chain of the Aeons. I hold with no petty-bourgeois 
alphabetical order; I shall list them in zodiacal order follow-
ing the vulgar calendar, beginning at the Equinox of Spring.
Lasombra
The sign of Aries the Ram rules the Clan of Night. Aries is 
a fiery sign; ram-headed Amon chose this clan’s founder for the 
power-lust that burned within his heart. You may know a Lasombra 
by his lack of a reflection. I know not the reason for this curious 
trait, though one ancient tale of their kind says that their Shadow 
King cast his out so that no one could see him approaching from 
behind. This seems very much in character for the Lasombra. 
From eight centuries of experience I may tell you, do not permit a 
Lasombra at your back. He probably has a sharpened stake ready.
The Lasombra also command a rare power over darkness. 
In a Lasombra’s hands, darkness becomes no mere absence of 
light, but a palpable force and substance of its own. They love 
darkness almost as much as we, no doubt because sunlight 
harms them almost as much.
Their fierce ambition makes Lasombra almost laughably 
easy to exploit — especially if you let a Lasombra think that 
he exploits you. Keep in mind that the Lasombra seek power 
over each other most of all. In order to flaunt some scrap 
of glory before his fellows, a Lasombra will betray anyone. 
Later, you may collect more favors through assistance to his 
aggrieved clanmates.
Breaking a Lasombra’s pride is no easy task, for their selection 
and training gives the Lasombra a self-confidence like unto black 
iron. When a Lasombra breaks, however, he breaks completely, 
and becomes yours to rebuild according to our dark Lord’s precepts.
Many Lasombra adopt a rather studied pose of evil. They 
claim that their petty harassment of the virtuous serves some 
“greater good” ordained by the very God they believe has damned 
them. The rams may butt heads, but through such doctrines 
they show themselves to be sheep obedient unto the Aeons.
Nosferatu
Beneath the sign of Taurus the Bull you will find the Nos-
feratu clan; I shall refrain from the obvious bon mots. Do not 
jest about the Nosferatu. The war-god Mont crafted them to 
endure and strike the final blow — and they remember insults 
forever. A particular Cainite proverb states, “The first to die 
in any war are the Nosferatu.” My experience says otherwise.
I grant the Aeons showed cunning in cursing the Nos-
feratu with hideous disfigurement. Forced to hide and rely on 
themselves and each other, they learn strength, cunning and 
ruthlessness. Many Nosferatu easily accept the truth about the 
Aeons. As one pupil of mine put it, she “always suspected that 
God was a sadistic bastard.”
The Nosferatu are as famed for their curiosity as for their 
ugliness. They appreciate the ancient adage about knowledge 
and power. Cultivate Nosferatu as informants, even if you 
cannot cultivate them as disciples. Few of them seek self-
knowledge, but once the flame be lit they will follow its light 
to our Master’s bosom. Lead a Nosferatu slowly and gently: of 
all their habits of thought, I find their suspicion the hardest 
to break, because it is so often justified.
Tremere
I mentioned the death of Antediluvians and the replace-
ment of clans. The Tremere, known in my childehood as 
the Usurpers and now called Warlocks, provide a glorious 
example of this. The sign of Gemini, the twins, once ruled an 
Antediluvian who called himself Saulot the Healer. I know 
your thought: a vampire, daring to call himself a healer? Before 
assuming that title, however, Saulot also extolled himself as a 
demon-hunter. Perhaps he had a guilty conscience due to his 
earlier role as father of demons. Our eldest clanmates remember 
a base lineage called the Baali and speak of them as the childer 
of Saulot’s rage. Strangely, no one else seems to remember 
this. At one time, we guarded the Baali’s patrimony as a great 
secret. Now, it hardly matters. Other vampires exterminated 
the demon-worshipping Baali long ago.
The Tremere bear the honor of destroying Saulot himself. 
This clan began scarcely a thousand years ago as a group of 
wizards who became undead through sorcery, at cost of seriously 
offending numerous vampires of the Tzimisce clan. The war 
between the Tremere and the Tzimisce lasted some centuries. 
Their leader, the arch-wizard Tremere, located the sleeping 
Saulot and drank him dry, elevating himself to take the An-
tediluvian’s place. The Tremere soon established themselves 
as the premier sorcerers of the undead. I must admit that in 
some ways they surpass even ourselves. When their elders act 
in concert, they wield such power that they can levy curses 
upon entire clans; I shall write more of this later.


Clanbook: Setite
56
If we recruited the Tremere to our cause, the Followers of Set 
could overthrow the Aeons completely. This may yet become 
possible: unlike the older clans of the Dodecad, the Tremere 
retain a guiding council that wields considerable influence 
in the clan’s affairs. If their “Council of Seven” commanded 
an alliance, I believe that many of the Warlocks would obey.
A steady trickle of Tremere already join the Cult of Set in 
secret, drawn by the lore we preserve. The Tremere compete 
with each other as fiercely as do the Lasombra, and sometimes 
as fatally. They dare much to gain some bit of knowledge or 
power denied to their fellows. Oft they imagine they will learn 
our secrets and skip away, only to find that the Revelations of 
Sutekh change him who knows them.
Forgive any small offenses a Tremere may commit in his 
ignorance. Seek his understanding, not his destruction. We of 
the elders follow the same policy regarding the clan as a whole, 
from admiration as well as utility. I believe that Saulot was a 
broken soul, perhaps one of those who bears many personalities 
in one body. The goddess Bast gave him the power to heal, 
but gentle Bast is also raging Sekhmet who fires the arrows of 
plague. Saulot’s clan, the Salubri, expressed this duality. Some 
Salubri became healers; others became warriors. Recall, too, 
the greater duality between the Salubri whom Saulot claimed 
and the Baali whom he disowned. No matter how terrible the 
Tremere might become if they warred upon the Followers of 
Set, I still prefer them to a mad god like Saulot!
Malkavian
The Clan of the Moon falls within the domain of Cancer, 
the Crab. Isis, queen of the Moon, tried to grant supreme wis-
dom to their founder. Instead she shattered his mind and all 
his descendants likewise. Each Malkavian is mad in some way. 
Some Malkavians show their dementia openly; others hide it. A 
Malkavian assured me that they only Embrace mortals who are 
already insane. Her qualifier? “Everyone is mad in their own way.”
Other vampires argue about whether the Malkavians’ 
madness partakes of genius. From experience, I can say that Mal-
kavians often display remarkable insight, cunning and creativity. 
I could say the same, however, about any bright mortal child. 
If you seek a novel approach, I suggest you consult the mouths 
of babes rather than Malkavians. Infants will irritate you less.
Of all the clans, I find the Malkavians the most difficult 
to guide unto the wisdom of Our Lord. Many of them lack 
the steadiness of purpose to achieve the requisite spiritual 
discipline, and many others cannot break free of their own 
strange obsessions. A few, however, seem to comprehend some 
of the Revelations of the Void already. These make useful allies, 
though seldom reliable ones.
Gangrel
The sign of Leo, the Lion, rules the Clan of the Beast. 
Apropos of their place in the Celestial Chain, the Gangrel 
are another warrior clan. I find the Gangrel incredibly brave, 
amazingly tough, murderously powerful as individuals — and 
completely ineffectual as a group. They prefer the forests and 
wastelands to urban unlife. Venture not into their domain, 
and they will probably never notice you. If you must travel 
far from cities, hire a Gangrel as your guide and pay him well.
The goddess Tefnut gave the Gangrel their powers. She 
enjoyed taking the form of a lion and wandering through 
desert places, until the god Thoth persuaded her to return 
home. The Gangrel take after her: they love to travel, and 
with time their appearance and mannerisms become more 
bestial. Most Gangrel possess shape-shifting powers somewhat 
similar to our own ophidian metamorphoses.
Do not let the Gangrel’s rustic ways make you doubt their 
intellects or potential for spiritual insight. Many Gangrel slip 
the Aeons’ leash and walk their own paths, scorning all creeds 
and mortal concerns. Strive to become the Thoth who leads 
the wanderer home to true wisdom.
Cappadocian/Giovanni
The Clan of Death suffered a replacement from within; 
they now call themselves the Giovanni, after the surname of 
the vampire who supplanted his sire, the clan’s founder. This 
coup de gens took place very recently, in the 15th century CE. 
The Cappadocians of my younger nights looked like animate 
corpses. The current Giovanni look as “alive” as any other 
vampire, but their bite does not cause the strange ecstasy 
that one enjoys from the fangs of other vampires. Instead, 
the Giovanni bite causes intense pain, more even than a 
mortal would feel from a purely mundane piercing of his flesh.
I retain the clan’s older name because the Giovanni usurpers 
did not entirely destroy the older clan. The Giovanni devoured all 
the Cappadocians within Europe, North Africa and the Levant, 
but I believe the older lineages endure in more remote countries. 
For instance, a colony of Cappadocians who call themselves 
“Samedi” thrives in the Caribbean region of the New World. I 
have no reliable reports of Cappadocian vampires in further 
Africa and India. If you should meet any, kindly let me know.
Anubis granted the Clan of Death their powers, and the 
sign of Virgo holds dominion over them. The Giovanni partake 
of both natures in full measure. Anubis granted the Cappado-
cians and Giovanni a remarkable power over the spirits and 
bodies of the dead. Apropos of Virgo, the Cappadocians were 
thoughtful but stolid and conservative; the Giovanni show 
the sign’s affinity with money and social position.
Many Cappadocians shared our clan’s search for enlighten-
ment and spiritual power, although they quested in different 
directions. They taught us much about the realms of the dead. 
After taking counsel with great Set, their founder Cappadocius 
vowed to usurp the Creator himself. We do not enjoy such 
cordial relations with the Giovanni. Their lust for a “respect-
able” facade tightly binds the Giovanni to the laws of the 
Aeons. Their ambitions and especially their avarice, however, 
make Giovanni vampires fairly easy to subvert. Thus you shall 
bring their necromantic powers to our Lord’s service after all.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
57
Brujah
The sign of Libra, the Scales, rules the Brujah clan. Thoth, 
the god of writing and measurement, brought their founder 
into the darkness. This may surprise you if you have crossed 
a Brujah. If so, you know that they can be far more aggressive 
than even the Assamites, and with far less cause.
Many Brujah claim that they know how to build a perfect 
society — whether for mortals, vampires or both — because of 
their superior intellects. You may locate these “superior intel-
lects” by listening for screams of terror and the crash of breaking 
objects. All vampires may succumb to the animal within, but 
the Brujah require much less provocation. Passionate commit-
ments to peculiar causes or ideologies typically mar whatever 
intellect a Brujah possesses. You will find Brujah minds almost 
laughably easy to lure, to break through and reach their pas-
sions, but almost impossible to rebuild afterward. 
The current Brujah are another lineage of supplanters. Un-
like the Tremere and the Giovanni, they stole even the name of 
the original clan. This usurpation, however, happened thousands 
of years ago, when the Brujah clan was very much smaller. The 
supplanter was a childe of the true, original Brujah founder.
Brujah himself was a scribe and scholar. Some few de-
scendants of his (not from his childe’s lineage) still survive in 
hiding from their brutal cousins. I shall respect their wish for 
secrecy, telling you this only: the Followers of Set claim several 
of these True Brujah as allies.
Tzimisce
I consider this clan one of the most excellent among the 
Twelve. They do not understand the snares of the Aeons, but 
evade many of them by instinct. Many Tzimisce pursue visions 
of transcendence comparable to our own, although they seek 
godhood within the world rather than beyond it. They prove 
excellent pupils and initiates. You will require no subtle de-
ception to lead them to our Lord. Simply show a Tzimisce the 
knowledge and self-perfection that we offer, and he will join 
the Cult of Set…if you can penetrate the arrogant self-reliance 
common to so many in this clan.
The elder god Geb, father of great Set, gave power to the 
first of the Tzimisce and placed their lineage under the domin-
ion of Scorpio: a god of Earth and a sign of Water. Tzimisce 
vampires possess a unique power to sculpt living and undead 
flesh like clay. In return, Geb bound them to their native soil. 
Away from his homeland, or the soil where she passed from life 
to undeath, a Tzimisce rapidly weakens. To travel, a Tzimisce 
must carry a quantity of his native soil with him.
Assamite
The Clan of the Hunt owes its origin to the huntress-
goddess Neith. The sign of Sagittarius, the Archer, rules this 
clan and its affairs. This clan, above all others among the 
Dodecad, masters the bestial rage common to all the undead. 
They have developed such fearsome prowess at dealing death 
that all other vampires fear them and seek to restrain them.
Loyalty lies at the heart of the Assamite clan. In undeath 
they remain disgustingly loyal to the gods they worshipped in 
life, whether this was Jehovah or Marduk. They equally prize 
loyalty to their Antediluvian. Assamites love to prove their 
courage, devotion and honor by stepping into other people’s 
business and picking a fight. Distressingly, their theology made 
a sacrament out of diablerizing other vampires. As you may 
have heard, the Tremere once cursed the Assamite clan so that 
the vitae of other vampires would be poison unto them. That 
curse recently ended (I know not how); instead the Assamites 
now suffer from a mad thirst for the blood of other vampires. 
I very much hope that the Tremere can reinstate their curse, 
which now looks more like a blessing.
I urge you to stay away from Assamites. Their current wave 
of bloodlust drives them erratically and uncontrollably. I hear 
that some Assamites find comfort and renewed self-discipline 
through Great Set. I also hear that numerous Followers of Set 
fed the mad thirst of Assamites whom they sought to prosely-
tize. In their current state, you cannot seduce or manipulate 
an Assamite with any certainty.
Ventrue
I regard the Ventrue as the most despicable of the Twelve 
Clans — and the greatest success of the Aeons. What else would 
you expect from the clan founded by Atum-Ra himself? The 
Ventrue are the Demiurge’s trusties in this prison of a world, 
thinking themselves the masters because they elevate themselves 
a little bit above the other prisoners. Ra placed the Ventrue under 
the sign of Capricorn the Goat, and the self-proclaimed “Clan 
of Kings” are Judas goats leading vampires and mortals alike to 
the Aeons’ pens and abattoirs. Plague take them!
Their pride, however, provides the key to a Ventrue’s 
seduction, destruction and (perhaps) eventual liberation. 
They feel the tug of ambition as strongly as the Lasombra, 
but many of them also feel they must cloak their ambition 
in a façade of duty, respectability, even martyrdom. Ventrue, 
like all vampires, retain undignified appetites from life. Help 
a Ventrue to indulge himself in secret (and his ‘shameful’ 
desires may astound you with their harmlessness rather than 
their perversity), and he is yours. If you can resist a Ventrue’s 
command of the wills of others — in which arts, I warn, they 
have no equal — you may easily buy some favors, extort oth-
ers through threats of ruining his precious reputation, and 
ultimately break his will and reduce him to a groveling wreck. 
Then you need merely decide if you wish to rebuild his soul 
as a fellow servant of the Dark God or cast him out to enjoy 
his final destruction. I prefer the latter course.
Ravnos
Ptah gave power to the Ravnos and placed them under the 
sign of Aquarius. The Divine Artificer gave them a shadow of 
his own creative power. A Ravnos can change the seeming of 
things, shaping images of objects or beings that do not really 
exist. The most powerful Ravnos can craft illusions of terrible 
power, that become utterly real for a single person. Take care 


Clanbook: Setite
58
that you never become that victim! This power of illusion hints 
much at the truth of our world and the Aeons that rule it. I 
wonder if Ptah realized how much truth he revealed through 
this clan of liars, or if he intended the Ravnos to become our 
secret allies in subverting the rule of Ra. Many a Setite forged 
a useful and amicable partnership with a Ravnos; some Ravnos 
share our revelatory mission, in their own way.
Unfortunately, most Ravnos fail to understand the lesson of 
Ptah’s gift and waste their unlives in sneak-thievery, confidence 
games and other petty trickeries. These small obsessions reveal 
much about a Ravnos’ soul, but prove worthless in breaking 
down a Ravnos’ own illusions. One can easily lure and manipu-
late a Ravnos through her particular, compulsive deception, 
but actually breaking her habit is always very difficult.
The special problems of breaking a Ravnos’ will may 
now be academic. My informants tell me many stories about 
Ravnos going mad and destroying each other in their frenzy, 
or forgetting to seek shelter from the sun. More than half of 
them seem to have met destruction.
Toreador
Under the weak and vacillating sign of Pisces you will 
find the Toreador, self-proclaimed Clan of the Rose. Nephthys, 
the sister and faithless wife of great Set, gave their founder 
undeath in her role as Anuket, goddess of beauty and desire. 
If she wanted to make something pretty, she succeeded. The 
Toreador often select their childer for their looks or for their 
talent as artists. If Nephthys wanted to create effective war-
riors against us, she failed. I find the Toreador the easiest of all 
vampires to subvert. Indeed, the Toreador do an excellent job of 
seducing and corrupting themselves; our efforts are redundant.
In my experience, most Toreador lack fixity of purpose. 
They are too busy sighing over a painting or madrigal to achieve 
any real spiritual discipline. They fully equal us, however, at 
twisting the passions of Cainite and kine, and may parlay this 
skill into surprisingly wide networks of favor and influence over 
Cainites and kine. They also move as quickly as any Assamite 
or Brujah: by the time you realize a Toreador has lost his temper, 
your head may be several feet from your body.
Sometimes I wonder why Nephthys made the Toreador 
as they are. Did she feel some loyalty to her husband, despite 
her services to Isis and Horus (and her alleged “service” in the 
bed of Osiris), and craft a clan that could never oppose Set’s 
own childer? If this Aeon intended her childer to become our 
allies, she could have let them and us know it!
The Camarilla
Several centuries ago, after a time of turmoil for Europe’s 
vampires, the elders of seven clans concocted a ridiculous 
scheme to delude their childer into thinking they had laws, 
rights, even justice. The elders called their little secret society 
the Camarilla. Like most true absurdities, it succeeded bril-
liantly. To this night, most Brujah, Malkavians, Nosferatu, 
Toreador, Tremere and Ventrue believe that they “belong to 
the Camarilla” as citizens rather than cattle. The Gangrel 
joined the Camarilla as well, but my informants claim that 
most members of the Clan of the Beast recently came to their 
senses and severed their ties to that august fraud.
I will not waste your time propounding the theories of 
Camarilla organization. They mean nothing. Rather, you should 
study well the minute details of your local Camarilla members. 
Learn the hidden ties of hatred, desire, fear and obligation that 
pull each vampire this way and that. Then you will see beyond 
the illusion of titles and traditions to the true structure of power.
Let us spare a moment of kindly thought for the Camarilla. 
It suppresses many conflicts between vampires — and as Dr. 
Freud recently realized, suppressed conflicts fester and erupt in 
disguised form. The scheming and backbiting within a city’s 
Camarilla provide an embarrassing wealth of secret obses-
sions and rivalries by which you may lead the local vampires 
to their enslavement, destruction or revelation — if you feel 
they deserve the effort.
The Sabbat
At about the same time that the Camarilla formed, the 
Lasombra and Tzimisce formed a competing alliance called the 
Sabbat. Malcontents from many clans joined them. In contrast 
to the order and safety promised by the Camarilla, the Sabbat 
declared freedom as its ideal. Join me in a moment of admira-
tion for the Sabbat’s founders, who succeeded in purveying an 
even greater absurdity than the Camarilla.
In its first centuries, the Sabbat hid from the Camarilla, 
going so far as a mass emigration to the New World. In the 
last century, however, the Sabbat emerged as a powerful and 
determined foe to the Camarilla in spite of various internecine 
wars. I dare say the Camarilla will never destroy it. Then again, 
I dare say the Sabbat will never destroy the Camarilla.
Our brothers and sisters sensibly support both sides. Both 
Camarilla princes and Sabbat bishops will pay through the 
jugular for information about their sect-rivals. You may collect 
astonishing boons; simply take care that neither side suspects 
that you give the other side a better deal.
The Sabbat’s structure itself offers fewer opportunities for 
subversion and corruption. The Sabbat’s blood rituals gener-
ate an ersatz loyalty between members. Conversely, when 
this blood-link fails, these vampires often simply resolve their 
differences by single combat.
One faction among the Sabbat, however, you must strive to 
destroy. The treasonous heretics who call themselves “Serpents 
of the Light” found refuge in the Sabbat. Do whatever you can 
to take away that refuge! I urge you to bribe, blackmail, addict 
and enslave whatever Sabbat members you can, as agents to 
use against these villains who deny the divinity of Set.
Ourselves: The Flaw 
in the Chain
The celestial Law of Destiny imposed by the Aeons carries 
a flaw. The Zodiac has more than twelve constellations! The 


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
59
sign of Scorpio also contains the constellation of Ophiuchus 
— the Serpent Holder. The sign of our clan. The thirteenth 
sign, carefully ignored by astrologers for 5000 years.
We have our own place in the Chain of Destiny. We 
are the spoilers, the unknown factor that breaks the force of 
Destiny itself…and our time may well have come.
I mentioned the strange self-slaughter of the Ravnos. The 
Eternals of our clan have conducted divinations. They refuse 
to tell their juniors what they learned, but the priests overhear 
hints of some great fracture within the Clan of Dreams. Priests 
at three separate temples tell me they believe that the First 
Ravnos met Final Death, without diablerie or some other sort 
of replacement. A priest of my acquaintance at the Liverpool 
Temple, for instance, read a snatch of her master’s missive to 
another Eternal. He did not understand what phrases such as 
“the fourfold Ra,” “Daedalans” or “Dragon Children” might 
mean, but he understood one phrase: the Dodecad is broken.
If this is true, then the Law of the Aeons is broken as 
well. Victory over the Aeons’ vampire catspaws seems more 
plausible than at any time before, and perhaps victory over 
the Aeons themselves — and the total destruction of this 
jail in which they hold us.
If you should hear more of these things, please repay my 
kindness by imparting whatever you may learn.
Psammeticus
Childe of Taimhotep
Playing God
Not every Setite character will be a devout Theophidian or 
build a blood cult. Their pretensions of divinity, however, play a 
large role in distinguishing the Followers of Set from other vam-
pire clans. Here, then, are suggestions on ways to make a Setite 
character something more than a vampire with a snake fetish.
Worldly Power: 
Backgrounds for Setites
Much of the Setites’ reputation as “arrangers” rests upon 
their Backgrounds. The Serpents cannot equal the political 
connections of the Ventrue or the wealth of the Giovanni, 
but they excel at the sheer diversity of their connections. 
Setites deserve their reputation for friends in low places, but 
few Serpents restrict themselves to the criminal demimonde. 
Put three Setites together and you probably have access to 
every level of society, from muggers to millionaires.
Allies, Contact, Influence
Most Setites pursue all three of these closely related 
Backgrounds. The savvy Setite keeps an eye out for opportuni-
ties to do someone else a favor and build up some obligation. 
Secular Setites recognize the value of having other people 
concerned with their well-being.
Fame
Most Setites avoid fame in the mortal world. Fame attracts 
too much of the wrong sort of attention. Some Followers do 
attract famous people into Set’s service because of the social 
power they wield, but such people are generally more useful as 
ghouls than as childer. If a famous recruit does prove worthy of 
the Embrace, he should not mind spending a few years drop-
ping out of society and arranging for the world to forget him.
Generation
The Setites respect a lower generation as indicating a 
closer blood connection to Set, but they don’t obsess about it. 
Diablerizing vampires of other clans may seem like a way to gain 
greater power for oneself and one’s cult: Few Setite elders would 
recommend it, though (and not just for the obvious personal 
risks). Diablerie creates intensely bad feeling if discovered, and 
Setites receive enough suspicion already.
Most Setites count generation from Set rather than from 
Caine. After all, Setite elders say that Caine never existed! 
Thus, a Serpent who is “officially” 13th generation would 
speak of himself as 10th generation in descent from Set. Other 
Setites will think of him this way no matter how successful a 
diablerist he becomes — assuming they care at all.
As a final complication, the orthodox cults describe any 
Setite who survives 1,460 years as a direct childe of Set. Devout 
Setites understand that this is metaphor, but it can confuse 
vampires of other clans.
Herd
The Followers of Set surpass every other clan at the 
cultivation of herds — especially blood cults. A Serpent may 
collect any sort of herd, but many Setites see themselves as 
priests or even gods. What’s a priest without a congregation 
or a god without worshippers?
A Setite’s other Backgrounds may grow out of her blood cult, 
too. A diverse body of cultists can supply a Herd, Contacts, Allies 
and Retainers all at once. Note that orthodox tradition enjoins 
a Setite to guide his congregation to as much enlightenment as 
they are ready to receive. Other Setites might not respect a Setite 
who exploited his blood cult without passing on Theophidian 
doctrine and assisting in cultists’ spiritual development.
A few radical Setites question the ethics of keeping a herd, 
whether as a blood cult or in any other form. They say that it 
smacks too much of the manipulations of the Aeons. How does 
it “liberate” people to play magical games with their minds?
Mentors
Many Setites have a Mentor. A Setite’s mentor is usually 
her sire or grandsire, but a Setite spiritual leader outside the 
character’s direct lineage is possible. Extraordinary mentors 
might lead large and powerful cults. Setites almost never 
have mentors from other clans.
Resources
No doctrinal variation enjoins poverty for the Followers of 
Set. The Serpents collect wealth as one more tool for performing 


Clanbook: Setite
60
and collecting favors. Orthodox Theophidians disdain money 
as an end in itself, as they disdain attachment to any worldly 
concern, but they fully accept its usefulness! Setite leaders 
can tithe the members of their cults. More secular Followers 
find that their Disciplines give them a killer edge in business.
Do keep in mind that a Setite’s Resources represent her liquid 
assets. You can hardly take out a mortgage on your secret temple….
Retainers
A Theophidian often selects Retainers from the most 
competent and loyal members of her herd. Cultist Retainers 
who understand the message of Set and show the appropriate 
spiritual development become ghouls while they receive more 
intensive training before their Embrace. Cultists who show 
devotion but little insight merely become servants. They may 
receive some small ceremonial honor, such as leading the 
congregation in a chant-and-response, but they have little 
chance of winning the Embrace. The ghoul serves until its 
death, and its master does not mourn overmuch.
More than a few Setites ghoul animals as Retainers. 
Setites prefer cobras or other venomous snakes, but Setites 
might also  choose other animals associated with their divine 
ancestor. These include the pig (Set took the form of a wild 
boar when he gouged out Horus’ eye) and the crocodile. 
One tall tale of the clan concerns a Setite who kept a ghoul 
hippopotamus, another one of Set’s animal forms.
Status
Followers of Set who accept the Camarilla’s laws may win 
Status in that sect…but seldom very much. A Setite charac-
ter’s other Backgrounds better reflect the character’s respect 
and influence within a Camarilla community. Serpents of the 
Light, of course, achieve Status within the Sabbat by that 
sect’s normal means: personal power, glorious deeds, charisma 
and the low-down, scum-sucking trade in boons and betrayals 
that Sabbat vampires swear only happens in the Camarilla.
Most Setites, however, only gain Status within their 
own clan. Setite Status derives from religious achievement 
as much as age. Cult leadership counts most of all: two Setite 
cult leaders may hate each other for differences in doctrine, 
but each Setite recognizes that the other one matters. The 
most important factors that influence Setite Status include:
Factor	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
    Status Modifier
Base: Setite in good standing with sire and other local Setites	
	
	
  1
Leader of a minor cult or a chapter of a major cult	
	
	
	
+1
Important cult officer in a major temple	 	
	
	
	
	
+1
Leader of a major cult and temple	
	
	
	
	
	
+2
Elder	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
+1
Knows Thaumaturgy	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
+1
Notable Theophidian theologian (4+ in Setite Lore)	
	
	
	
+1
Notable esoteric scholar (4+ in Occult or other esoteric Knowledge)	
	
+1
Notable religious artist (4+ in Expression or Crafts)	
	
	
	
+1
Locally important favor-trader and power-broker (4+ in two useful Backgrounds)	
+1
Note, however, that no Setite can attain clan Status 
higher than 3 without leading a cult and establishing a temple. 
An Eternal of Sothis has an automatic Status of 5.
Knowledge
Even their most ardent detractors concede that the Follow-
ers of Set possess an enviable trove of secrets. The clan includes 
blood magicians of enviable power. The libraries of their main 
temples hold the histories, myths and liturgies of grim empires 
unknown to the archeologist’s spade. For a thousand years, 
pious Christians and Muslims labored to burn these demonic 
scriptures and bury every trace of their authors. If the Setites 
revealed what they know, every history book in the world would 
stand revealed as a compendium of lies. Historians need not 
fear for their reputations, though. The Serpents have no desire 
to set the world screaming with madness…yet.
The average Setite deals with less exalted and terrifying 
secrets. Mundane and contemporary knowledge is power, 
too. Many Setites study Finance, Law or Politics, the better 
to understand the hidden workings of mortal society. On a 
more practical level, Setites want to trace the world’s hidden 
currents of power so they can use them: computer access codes 
and insider business tips are as potent as any sorcerous ritual.
Any skilled manipulator tries to learn about her victim’s 
likes, dislikes, passions and past. For many Setites, this goes 
beyond finding buttons to push. Theophidian doctrine stresses 
the importance of looking beyond surfaces to find the hidden 
truth. A Setite who hunts for the Mayor’s childhood friends 
and library records seeks clues to his soul — to tempt him or 
use him, yes, but also simply to unriddle another bit of the 
world. Not every secret a Setite seeks is necessarily part of 
some hidden agenda for power.
Setite Libraries
Large, old temples of major Setite cults maintain libraries 
containing all manner of esoteric lore, from Setite mystical 
poetry to alchemical recipe-books. The high priests do not 
let just anyone consult their collections, though — not even 
fellow Setites. Access to a temple library counts as a Contact 
for a Follower of Set. Characters may also gain indirect access 
through a Mentor.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
61
A character who wants permission to use a temple library 
must earn the privilege. The temple priests will set some test, 
or demand that the character perform a significant task for 
the temple. Typical challenges include:
• Obtain a grimoire, lorebook or talisman from a Tremere 
chantry, in such a way that the Warlocks will never suspect 
Setite involvement.
• Capture or kill a priest’s enemy. (Even more delicious 
if the character owes the priest’s enemy a boon or simply 
likes him.)
• Deliver a package without breaking the seals and 
looking inside, despite noises, odors or other hints that the 
package may be extremely valuable or extremely dangerous 
to the character.
In the best Setite fashion, these tasks may be tests of 
personality as well as challenges to the character’s strength, 
courage or cunning. After the test, the supplicant takes part 
in an initiation rite and swears an oath of secrecy. Only then 
will he receive access to the temple library.
Setite temples do not loan out their volumes. You read 
them in the temple, under a priest’s watchful eye. Temples do 
not own copy machines, either. Many Setite volumes would 
blow the Masquerade wide open if they fell into kine hands. 
Setite scriptures are often written in Arabic, Coptic or ancient 
Egyptian hieroglyphic or demotic script, so characters may 
need a priest to translate.
New Knowledge Ability: Setite Lore
Hesha tossed the papers back to Beckett. “Worthless,” he 
announced. “This scroll is a forgery.”
The other vampire’s lips briefly tightened. “You can tell that 
from a photocopy?” he asked coolly. “Without examining the 
paper? I found that scroll myself in a Libyan tomb.”
“It’s old,” the Setite replied, “But a forgery nevertheless. 
The writer claims to serve the Garden of Asps, but he uses the 
liturgy of Abydos.” Hesha leaned back in his chair. “Which has 
its own points of interest, I admit. The Assamites destroyed the 
Abydos temple in the Persian occupation of Egypt. How old did 
you say this tomb was?”
This Ability measures a character’s knowledge of the 
Serpents’ vast corpus of history, mythology, theology, sub-
cults and rituals. Even when this information is not actually 
secret, it may be hard to learn. The average Setite must study, 
travel and speak to other clan members for decades before 
he knows the differences between House of the Eclipse and 
Red Temple liturgy — let alone any of the real secrets. Many 
Setite texts employ complex allusions to mythology and 
philosophy. Interpreting them may require success at a roll 
of Intelligence + Setite Lore.
Few vampires from other clans ever acquire Setite Lore. 
The Serpents guard their secrets well. Any non-Setite char-
acter who achieves more than a single dot in Setite Lore (the 
Dark God only knows how) must hide her knowledge well, or 
Setites are sure to target her for conversion or assassination.


Clanbook: Setite
62
•	
	
Student: You know that you assist the Dark 
God in opposing the Aeons, and you can assist in your cult’s liturgy.
••	 	
College: You can discuss broad differences in 
cult theology and practice, and know much of Set’s mythology.
•••	
Masters: You can analyze Theophidian 
theology in detail, know the names of most Hierophants and 
are privy to many secrets. You’ve probably received initiation 
into the higher grades of one or more cults.
••••	
Doctorate: You know the specific goals of 
Hierophants and Eternals and have read many of the most 
secret texts and grimoires. The secrets of the Setites have 
scarred your soul.
•••••	
Scholar: After such knowledge, what 
forgiveness?
MET: Treat this as any other Hobby/Professional/
Expert Ability.
Temptation
Other vampires think of the Followers of Set as tempters 
and seducers — and that’s exactly what they are. The Serpents 
know that one of the surest means to get someone’s atten-
tion is to find out what the person wants and offer it to him. 
Convincing someone of your point of view becomes easier if 
they like you…and much easier if they need you.
Setites work very hard at being needed.
As the saying goes, opportunity favors the prepared 
mind. A good Setite keeps her eyes and ears open. People 
hide their desires, but they still slip out in jokes laughed at 
or not, sights studied or avoided — a hundred different ways. 
A sensitive Serpent can recognize such hints. Like a good 
bartender, he’s a good listener.
When the Serpent learns what a person wants, she con-
siders ways she might satisfy the desire. Not all the services a 
Setite provides are illicit. Sure, people want drugs, sex, money 
and simple things like that. A Setite can go far pandering to 
such crude appetites. A true artist of temptation, however, 
strives to satisfy less concrete desires such as ambition, envy or 
curiosity. Access to a powerful politician, a rival’s humiliation, 
a family member’s safety — these and many other things can 
obsess a person as strongly as any material desire.
Followers of Set have many ways to obtain what other 
people want. Obfuscate makes theft embarrassingly easy, while 
Presence greatly enhances haggling. Some Serpents can call 
upon Thaumaturgic Paths and rituals.
A loyal blood cult provides numerous low-grade opera-
tives who can do all sorts of scutwork. If you need to find 
18th-century underwear or a rent-controlled apartment on 
short notice, let the cultists make the phone calls and beat 
the pavement. Cultists can also play out little scenes to fur-
ther their master’s plans, such as small but distracting riots 
or thronging admirers to supply bogus celebrity.
When all else fails, a Setite can ask clanmates for help. A 
wise Serpent cultivates Contacts, Allies and prestation boons 
within their own clan, as well as among other vampires, and 
lets clanmates know what he can offer in trade. When someone 
asks a Follower of Set to find a flawless canary-yellow diamond, 
a lost work of Aristotle, or something else the Serpent cannot 
herself obtain, she calls up every other Setite she knows and 
asks if they can procure the item. These Setites can then ask 
their own Contacts, and so on. The major temples form the 
nodes of this web of prestation. Not only do temples stockpile 
all manner of esoteric treasures, they also keep track of cult 
members with special resources or abilities.
For instance, suppose a Toreador Primogen asks a local and 
supposedly…reliable…Follower of Set for a warding talisman 
against blood magic. The Setite passes the commission to his 
cult’s Founding Temple. A few months later, the temple replies: 
the Hierophant of the Descending Aerie will supply such a talis-
man in return for a complete Neanderthal skeleton and a quart 
of werewolf blood. The Serpent knows where he can get the 
skeleton, and knows a Gangrel huntsman who claims he can 
find and kill a werewolf. The Setite tells the Hierophant that 
she’s got a deal — and then ponders how to buy the Gangrel’s 
service. In another month the Toreador has his talisman, the 
Hierophant has her skeleton and blood, and the Setite has a life 
boon from the Toreador that he can exploit again and again.
A crude panderer immediately asks for payment. A skilled 
panderer does not. Smart Setites play longer games, for greater 
prizes. Their first favor is free. Perhaps the second and third 
favors will be, too. A serious tempter wants her target in the 
habit of accepting his favors. She wants to make that habit 
as hard to break as possible.
A vampire can certainly use supernatural powers to create 
desires. The Setites developed whole Paths of Thaumaturgy 
devoted to inducing passions, appetites and addictions. Magic, 
however, carries certain risks. If a victim figures out that the 
Setite made him want something, the Setite very probably 
gains a bitter enemy. Letting people exploit their own flaws 
is safer, even if the results are slower.
The Blood Bond is another dangerous ploy. If the victim 
is already blood bound, it does not work. If the victim suspects 
before the Setite completes the bond, she probably hates and 
fears the Setite from then on. Sabbat never stay blood bound 
for long, and they take hideous revenges.
In any case, orthodox Setites disapprove of exploiting the 
Blood this way. Their vitae is divine; imparting it to another 
is a sacrament. Giving the Blood to the unworthy…cheapens 
it, like using Communion wafers as crackers in your soup. 
Most Setites wait until after someone agrees to join the cult 
before giving them a taste of Serpent vitae, and then make 
the Blood Oath part of the initiation.
As a target becomes accustomed to the Setite’s as-
sistance, the Serpent can ask for favors in return. When 
the accountant comes for his weekly racing tip, the Setite 
introduces another “friend” who needs a little creative 
bookkeeping done. The vampire who needed help saving 
his haven from demolition surely would not mind stashing a 


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
63
crate there discreetly, just for a few nights? The more people 
(Kindred and kine) who owe the Setite favors, the more 
help she has in doing favors for other people.
Eventually, the sly Serpent acquires a string of clients who 
depend on him, perhaps so much that they will do whatever 
he asks in return. If they lack spontaneous gratitude, the Setite 
can try blackmail: a prudent Setite obtains pictures or other 
evidence of a client’s improper activities. Blackmail, however, 
is a delicate art. The victim must believe that he has more to 
fear from exposed indiscretions than he does from doing what 
the blackmailer wants — and that the blackmailer has no 
fear of exposure whatsoever. Here, the Serpents’ degenerate 
reputation actually helps. No vampire would believe that 
any crime could shame a Setite. The blackmailer must also 
know how much he can demand before his victim lashes out 
and tries to murder him.
A Follower who settles for mere power, however, will 
not advance very far in the estimation of other Setites. For 
other vampires, establishing this sort of power over another 
person would be the end of a campaign of temptation. For 
the Followers of Set, such mastery is only the beginning….
Revelation
Once a Follower of Set has a Kindred or kine in his 
power, the campaign of temptation moves to a whole new 
level. Devout Theophidians do not settle for mere obedience. 
They want to open their victims’ eyes, shatter their minds and 
mold their souls like clay. Even the frightful, body-twisting 
Tzimisce do not ask for so much.
The Setites believe that everyone, Kindred and kine, 
wraps their true soul in layers of self-deception and social 
conditioning. More old-fashioned Theophidians speak of 
the Chains of the Aeons. Setites who prefer the language 
of modern psychology speak of “character armor” and “false 
consciousness.” Either way, they want it gone, and they be-
lieve that Set showed them the way. Tempting, seducing and 
corrupting a victim is merely the first step in peeling away 
the shrouds of illusion to get at the true soul hidden within.
Losing one’s illusions is seldom pleasant. The Setites say 
that after thousands of years, Kindred and kine have grown 
comfortable in their prisons. On the other hand, the Serpents 
have thousands of years of experience at breaking open souls. 
Their holiest scripture, The Book of Going Forth By Night, 
describes the Revelations of the Void that free a soul from 
the deceptions of the Aeons — the Nine Gates of Wisdom 
that lead to liberation and communion with divine Set.
The Revelation of Ecstasy often comes first. The Setite 
uses extreme sensations — pleasure, pain, exhaustion, what-
ever — to induce a trance in his victim. Drugs work too, but a 
Serpent will combine them with some other intense experience 
to shock the victim completely out of his normal consciousness.
Trance is an intrinsically religious experience. While 
in ecstatic trance, people often feel like they met God. The 
solicitous Serpent provides a setting and suggestions so that 
his victim feels like she’s encountered Set. Indeed, many 
Theophidians believe that the victim does contact their god 
and enjoy this sort of trance communion themselves.
The Revelation of Terror, however, is the easiest of the 
nine to induce. It involves quite literally scaring the victim 
out of his wits. For a moment, all the buzzing distractions of 
everyday life and extraneous thoughts drop away. When the 
fear ends and the victim realizes that she did not die, she feels 
reborn as a new person. (This is why many tribal societies, 
mystery cults, the Sabbat and other groups include pain and 
fear in their initiation rituals. The Setites, however, make 
this symbolic death and rebirth far more terrifying than a 
mere college fraternity’s hazing.)
In granting the Revelation of Terror, the trick is soothing 
and directing the victim afterward, so that he does not simply 
feel angry at the Setite for frightening him. (Such anger can 
have its use, though. See the Revelation of Wrath). One 
strategy is not to let the victim know that the Serpent arranged 
the terror, but to show up afterward and immediately lead 
the victim to some other new experience. Alternatively, the 
Setite can use the Revelation of Terror in the classic manner, 
as part of the victim’s initiation into the cult. The figure of 
the god becomes the first thing the victim sees after her ter-
ror passes, as the Setite priest welcomes her into Set’s grace.
The Warrior Setites particularly emphasize the Revelation 
of Wrath. Anger and hate, they say, take people out of them-
selves just as much as pleasure, pain or any other feeling can. 
Most people, however, do not know how to feel a really savage, 
towering rage. From parents to presidents, those in authority tell 
people to restrain their anger, play nice and stay quiet. A Setite 
who seeks to confer this revelation goads his victim into blind, 
murderous rage — if necessary, directed at the Setite herself! 
The victim forgets social conditioning, calculation and even 
survival. Afterward, the Serpent helps her victim understand 
that in that moment of pure Will, his soul stood bare. The masks 
of false consciousness can never fit so tightly again.
The Revelation of Desire involves leading the victim to 
take pleasure in acts that revolt him. As the victim indulges 
his appetites and ambitions, his Setite mentor-panderer 
encourages him to explore new desires. Setites study their 
victims’ passions and degradations to find the true shape of 
their souls. The Setite hopes to uncover some desire so appall-
ing and irresistible that satisfying it will shatter the victim’s 
self-image beyond any rationalization or hypocrisy. “I should 
not want this,” the victim thinks. “I cannot want this. But 
I did want it, I enjoyed it, and I want it again! What am I?”
A Revelation of Desire often involves criminal acts such 
as rape, murder or extreme sexual deviance because most 
people work especially hard to deny such desires (for their 
own protection, if for no other reason). Other “forbidden” 
desires are possible, though; conflicts of gender identity are 
but one example. The Serpents will use whatever desire blasts 
a person out of her customary identity — and prepares her 
for a new identity through the worship of Set.


Clanbook: Setite
64
The Revelation of Satiety takes a contrary approach to 
desires. Instead of whipping up the victim’s appetites, the Setite 
tries to exhaust a desire by over-stimulating it, until enjoyment 
palls and what once gave such pleasure now cloys and disgusts.
This Revelation does require careful management and 
discretion. Chemical addictions, for instance, never exhaust 
themselves. The addict simply develops a tolerance, until 
she cannot live without the drug even though she no longer 
gets a high from it.
The Revelation of Despair takes a crueler course. A Setite 
confers this revelation by discovering what the victim loves and 
values most in the world…and destroying it or taking it away, so 
that the person has no hope of regaining his desire. If the victim 
loves his wife more than anything, the Serpent persuades her to 
loathe him. If a victim delights most in the beauties of art, the 
Setite blinds her. The ruthless businessman finds his stratagems 
in ruins and his money gone. Actually, a Setite who sets out to 
confer the Revelation of Despair seldom settles for just one loss. 
She destroys as much of the victim’s life as she can.
The most important targets of a Despair campaign, how-
ever, are the victim’s pride and morals. The Serpent does his 
worst to prove that the victim cannot possibly achieve his 
ambitions or live up to his ideals. One way or another, the 
victim finds all hope and joy turned to ashes. She can achieve 
nothing, not without the help of a higher power. The Setite 
stands ready to show her one….
The Revelation of Ignorance attacks the victim’s sense of 
certainty in her life and her world. Simply showing the victim 
something unexpected is not enough. People adjust to mere 
surprises. Teaching a mortal about the existence of vampires, 
for instance, is far too small a revelation for a Setite’s purposes, 
unless the person is a truly rabid skeptic about the supernatural. 
The Setite must understand his victim’s mind well enough to 
discover what she cannot accept as truth — and then make her 
believe that very thing. The white supremacist learns that he 
is part black; the idolized mother stands revealed as the mas-
termind of a vicious crime syndicate. If the revelation granted 
really is true, this is a bonus, but a dedicated Theophidian will 
not hesitate to create elaborate hoaxes.
For a variation, the Setite inverts his victim’s moral un-
derstanding. He shows the victim how what she thought was 
good actually brings evil, and what she thought was evil actually 
brings good. Mere philosophical argument will not work: the 
Serpent must show his victim, through direct experience, the 
impossibility of telling good from evil, help from harm and love 
from hate. A compassionate social worker, for instance, might 
see all the ways she harmed the lives of those she wanted to help 
(even if the Setite must arrange their ruination himself). When 
the victim understands that the moral codes he believed were 
all nonsense or a fraud, the Setite will show him a new code.
This is probably the most difficult revelation to arrange, at 
least if the Setite hopes to shatter a person’s identity through 
one blow. More often, a Serpent combines a smaller Revela-
tion of Ignorance with some other shocking enlightenment. 
If worshipping an Egyptian vampire-god seems ordinary and 
sensible after what the victim learned about himself and his 
world, the Setite did his job well.
We all like to think that we control our lives, and that 
what we do not control ourselves some “proper authority” 
will oversee. The Revelation of Chaos strips away this cer-
tainty by attacking the victim’s sense of living in an ordered, 
predictable world. Either he is mad, or the world is! Setites 
generally combine hallucinogens with real but senseless acts 
to break down the victim’s sense of reality. This may overlap 
with the Revelation of Despair if the Serpent uses pointless 
tragedies (such as the “random” murder of a loved one) to 
convince the victim of the chaos and absurdity of existence. 
When the victim can no longer tell what is real or why any-
thing happens, the Setite introduces the worship of Set as a 
new fixed point she can build her life around.
The last lesson is the Revelation of Blood. This is the 
Embrace itself: terror, ecstasy and desire all at once as the 
mortal victim dies, rises again and feeds for the first time. 
Many Theophidians, however, will reserve this greatest of 
all revelations until the mortal has joined the cult of Set, 
passed a few of the other Gates of Wisdom and proven his 
devotion. Such a mortal is not victim, but a true initiate and 
celebrant of Set’s greatest and most mysterious sacrament.
Cult Leadership
Compared to the mighty elder vampires, neonates may 
seem feeble, even to themselves. Compared to the mere mortals 
around them, however, even a neonate vampire is a powerful 
supernatural force. The Followers of Set recognize this basic truth. 
Even the least of them can become a bloody god of the night to 
her awestruck acolytes. As the Heaven’s Gate, Jonestown and 
other cult suicides prove, mortals can play God using nothing 
more than a gift for gab. Imagine how easily someone with actual 
supernatural powers could inspire such fanaticism!
Conveniently, the Setites’ list of Clan Disciplines 
includes the two that are most useful for playing God. 
Presence supplies awe, terror and a supernatural call. A 
Setite using Obfuscate could walk unseen among mortals to 
learn their secrets, or literally take the appearance of a god. 
Used together, these Disciplines can generate an extremely 
convincing divine encounter.
Admittedly, masquerading as a god requires considerable 
skill at Manipulation and Performance. Setites can use simple 
props, however, to make their impersonations easier. For instance, 
a Setite who wants to play the role of an animal-headed Egyp-
tian god could wear a mask from a costume shop. The Mask of 
1000 Faces would make the crude disguise seem absolutely real. 
Serpents of the Light often seem to metamorphose into a loa 
during religious ceremonies; the Cobra keeps the characteristic 
props and costume of the loa in his temple. Most importantly of 
all, congregation members expect such a miraculous possession 
or transformation. This renders even marginal success at Mask 
of 1000 Faces enough to transform a Follower of Set into the 


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
65
image of a god…at least to the faithful. A disbelieving onlooker 
may find the show rather less convincing!
Serpentis has more limited uses. Transforming into a 
snake-man or a giant snake will impress the rubes, but it does 
not give the Setite many choices: how many snake gods can 
the average person name? Setite priests rarely use Skin of the 
Adder to impersonate any god but Set himself. Eyes of the 
Serpent can emulate Presence to a limited degree. The Setite 
catches a mortal’s eye with his magnetic, basilisk gaze while 
he speaks. With luck, the mortal mistakes fascination with 
the vampire’s eyes for fascination with the vampire’s message.
Nor do the Serpents restrict themselves to their Clan 
Disciplines. Cleverly applied, any Discipline can strike mortals 
with awe. Warrior Setites know how a small display of crush-
ing, irresistible strength can cow uncooperative mortals. Old 
tradition in the clan recommends Animalism as a way to assert 
divinity without ostentation, by making savage dogs and wild 
beasts fawn and lick the vampire’s hands. Above all other 
Disciplines, however, Thaumaturgy — the several styles of 
Setite sorcery — provides a wealth of ways to bless, curse and 
bedazzle Kindred and kine alike. The Setite magician-priests 
believe that through their magic, they show Set’s power to 
the world and assert their own divinity.
Setite sorcerers not only curse their personal enemies, 
they often supply curses to avenge perceived wrongs against 
worshippers. The Serpents of the Light in particular often 
blur the line between priest and professional magician in this 
regard. They may sell curses and other aggressive spells (love 
spells, exorcisms of evil spirits and the like) to members of 
the broader community, just like any mortal bokor or santero 
— except the Cobra’s magic is more likely to really work!
The major Setite traditions treat the blood cult as a great 
responsibility. Even the Serpents of the Light agree with 
their parent clan on this point. No law forbids a Follower of 
Set from ruthlessly exploiting her blood cult as a Herd while 
giving nothing in return. The Setites call such a selfish cult 
leader an “Osiris” because he adopts the greedy, deluding 
methods they ascribe to their hated enemy. Ignorant Cainites 
now use this name for any master of a blood cult. A Setite 
who showed such a parasitic attitude, however, would lose all 
Status in the eyes of more pious clanmates. The Setites have 
no Inquisition to enforce standards, but individual Setites can 
show their scorn by refusing to associate with an Osiris, or by 
making trouble for her with other local vampires.
No, a true Theophidian regards his blood cult as a genuine 
congregation. As their priest and stand-in for the Dark God, he 
takes responsibility for their spiritual well-being. He does much 
more than show the power of Set in religious rituals while col-
lecting fees in blood. Like any dutiful priest, a Setite takes an 
interest in his parishioners’ lives and unlives. He counsels them 
in times of doubt and trouble, advising them on how to apply the 
Dark God’s teachings to their present situation. When he judges 
that acolytes are ready, he guides them to personal Revelations 
of the Void, advancing their own spiritual development.


Clanbook: Setite
66
Membership in a Setite cult has more tangible rewards, 
too. A loyal acolyte might become a ghoul, directly serving 
his cult and god with the god’s own power. If a cultist suffers 
difficulty in business, lust, revenge or other personal matters 
that she cannot overcome through her own wit and will, she 
can obtain help from other members of her community of 
faith. If all else fails, she can turn to her Theophidian pastor, 
avatar of the god himself. This gives the Serpent a chance 
to show how Set’s power overcomes the obstacles that the 
Aeons place before the faithful.
Symbols of Faith
Unlike most mortal faiths, Setite blood cults must hide 
from the world and even from other vampires: the Followers 
of Set have many enemies. They cannot place a “Temple of 
Set” number in the phone book.
So how do cultists of Set recognize each other? The 
Setites take their cue from the early Christians, who used 
the sign of the fish to identify themselves. The Followers of 
Set cull the legends of their god for esoteric references and 
images that an outsider probably would not recognize. They 
work these code-symbols into their dress, their homes and 
havens, their businesses and meeting-places.
Many vampires know that Followers of Set have a ser-
pent fetish. Therefore, a Setite who wants to hide his clan 
allegiance does not display lots of snake motifs in his clothes 
or decor. He does not locate his shrine in the back room of 
a snake fanciers’ pet shop, or a bar called the “Cobra Café,” 
or anything else so pathetically obvious. Explicitly Egyptian 
themes such as pyramids, mummies and sphinxes are some-
thing of a giveaway as well. A Setite uses such symbols only 
at properties that she wants other vampires to find.
Instead, the clever Setite exploits the fact that Set had 
many totem animals besides the “Typhonic Beast” whose 
head forms the clan’s emblem. The crocodile, hippopotamus 
and the black pig, for instance, play important roles in Set’s 
mythology and iconography. The Serpent might buy a tavern, 
call it the “Safari Room” and place a smiling cartoon crocodile 
and hippo on the sign.
The Egyptians also placed the Dark God in their sky. They 
believed that Set dwelled in the Big Dipper, just as they saw 
Orion as the figure of Osiris. Thus, a Setite could identify herself 
using a sketch of the Big Dipper, or identify her property with an 
actual dipper or a reference to “Seven Stars” or “Northern Stars.”
Set was the god of the desert, of storms and clouds covering 
the sun, earthquakes and eclipses. He invented beer and enjoyed 
lettuce (which the Egyptians considered an aphrodisiac — ap-
ropos of Set’s violent masculinity). A properly initiated Setite 
notices any of these references to the lore of Set, especially if 
they occur in combination. He slips his own Setite references 
into his speech, dress or actions, and watches to see if anyone 
responds. After a few such careful exchanges to establish their 
bona fides, the two cultists can talk more openly and the local 
Setite can arrange temporary quarters for the visitor.
Divine Power
The Followers of Set believe themselves divine. Some 
gods, however, wield greater power than others. Over the 
millennia, their low-generation elders created special high-
level Discipline powers. The clan also possesses an enormous 
body of sorcerous lore: the Serpents lack the innate talent of 
the Tremere, but they’ve studied blood magic for a lot longer.
Advanced Serpentis
•••••• Cobra Fangs
A character using Form of the Cobra gains a venomous 
bite along with his serpentine form. Unfortunately, huge black 
cobras tend to make people run away as fast as they can. This 
Serpentis power enables a Setite to gain the deadly bite without 
the full-body transformation, making it more useful for taking 
victims by surprise. The police do ask questions when someone 
dies from a cobra bite under unlikely circumstances, so Cobra 
Fangs still requires some discretion in its use.
System: The Setite expends one blood point, and in one 
turn his fangs become hollow, more slender and venomous. The 
vampire injects venom when he bites. He must still grapple 
with the victim to deliver a bite attack, and the bite does the 
usual amount of damage; the venom, however, kills mortals 
within one minute. Bitten vampires or other supernaturally 
resilient creatures suffer ten health levels of aggravated damage, 
minus one per dot of Stamina, over the course of five minutes.
MET System: The power costs one Blood Trait and lasts 
a full scene (or one hour, whichever is shorter). Biting requires 
a normal Physical challenges between attacker and target.
••••••• Divine Image
Many of the low-generation Setite elders no longer need the 
illusions of Obfuscate to appear as a god. Through this Serpentis 
power, a Setite can physically metamorphose into the form of a 
god. Male Followers of Set generally take the form of Set himself: 
a muscular man with the head of the “Typhonic Beast,” an animal 
with a long, narrow snout and upstanding, square-topped ears. 
Less often, they take the form of the crocodile-headed god Sobek, 
whom the Egyptians often linked to Set, or the wolf-headed war-
god Wepwawet, often identified with Set’s son Anubis. Female 
Setites generally assume the form of the cobra-headed goddess 
Renenet, wife of Sobek, or the hippopotamus-goddess Taweret, 
sometimes considered a consort of Set. Both were goddesses of 
pregnancy and childbirth. Setite doctrine labels all four deities 
as Set’s eldest childer.
While assuming the Divine Image, the vampire becomes 
stronger, tougher and more impressive. More importantly, 
perhaps, the Setite’s will becomes more powerful as he identi-
fies with a divine forebear.
System: The character expends three blood points and 
transforms into the Divine Image in one turn. In the Divine 
Image, the vampire gains two dots each of Strength and 
Stamina and a dot each of Charisma and Manipulation, but 


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
67
her Appearance drops to 1. These can push the vampire over 
his generational limit. The character also gains two full dots 
of Willpower (to a maximum of 10). The Setite can stay in 
the Divine Image for a full scene.
A vampire has only one Divine Image form (unless the 
player buys her this power twice). The character does not know 
what Divine Image he will manifest. The divine ancestors 
themselves decide that…along with the player and Storyteller.
MET System: The Setite’s player exchanges three Blood 
Traits for four Physical Traits and two Willpower Traits, the 
Social Trait Intimidating and the negative Social Trait Bestial. 
The transformation lasts one scene or one hour, whichever 
is shorter. Generational limits do not apply.
•••••••• Heart Thief
The Serpentis power Heart of Darkness normally takes 
hours to perform upon other vampires, and only works at the 
dark of the Moon. Some Setite elders, however, can pull the 
heart from another vampire’s chest with a quick snatch of the 
hand. This does not destroy the vampire…unless the Setite 
then destroys the stolen heart. Heart Thief is not an easy power 
to use despite its speed, but few Discipline effects can place 
one vampire in another’s power so suddenly and completely.
System: The character must expend one Willpower 
point. Removing the heart of a reluctant vampire is a difficult 
feat, comparable to staking a vampire through the heart: the 
attacker must receive at least three successes on a Dexterity 
+ Brawl attack (difficulty 9). The victim may use Fortitude 
to “soak” the attacker’s successes, but mundane Stamina has 
no effect against this magical attack.
A vampire who loses his heart this way takes one unsoak-
able level of aggravated damage, and receives all the benefits 
and problems of the Heart of Darkness power. Resisting frenzy 
becomes easier (-2 to difficulties) and he cannot be staked by 
wood that impales his breast. On the other hand, thrusting 
a stake through the removed heart will instantly force the 
vampire into torpor and exposing the heart to fire or sunlight 
will burn the vampire to ash; even biting into the heart will 
cause aggravated wounds to the vampire in question.
MET System: Stealing the heart of an unwilling vam-
pire uses the same Physical Challenge as staking a vampire.
••••••••• Shadow of Apep
Only Set and Set’s own childer can perform this ter-
rifying power. These ancient monsters can take the form of 
Set’s defeated enemy, Apep. The vampire becomes a giant 
serpent of fluid, glittering Darkness — not mere shadow, but 
anti-light, like the black force commanded by Obtenebra-
tion. In this form, physical force cannot harm the vampire: 
not claws or fangs, not bullets, not explosions, not anything 
except fire, sunlight or magic. Physical barriers cannot eas-
ily stop the vampire, whose shadowy form can seep through 
even the tiniest crack. The vampire, however, can still exert 
physical and supernatural force quite freely.
System: Taking the form of Apep costs a Willpower 
point; the vampire stays in this form for a scene. The trans-
formation takes three turns to complete. In this form, the 
vampire takes no damage from any physical attack: fists, 
weapons or falling buildings pass through the vampire as 
if she were a shadow. Fire and sunlight inflict the normal 
aggravated damage, however, and magic still affects the 
transformed vampire. The vampire itself gains three dots in 
each Physical Attribute. Ignore generational limits for this 
purpose, so the vampire could have Strength, Dexterity or 
Stamina greater than 10. The transformed vampire can use 
its Strength to make normal close combat attacks and can 
bite for Strength + 2 dice of damage. The vampire can also 
employ any Discipline that does not require hands.
MET System: At a cost of a Willpower Trait, the 
character gains six Physical Traits and becomes immune to 
all but the specified forms of damage. The transformation 
lasts a full scene.
Advanced Obfuscate 
and Presence
Low-generation Setite elders may learn special powers 
of Obfuscate or Presence as well as their clan’s trademark 
Serpentis. Such elder Serpents can learn any of the advanced 
Obfuscate or Presence powers described in Guide to the Ca-
marilla. The Followers of Set also developed a few distinctive 
Obfuscate and Presence powers of their own.
Mental Maze (Obfuscate Level 6)
Instead of concealing or disguising the vampire or an 
object, this power removes a victim’s sense of direction. He 
literally cannot see which way to go, forcing him to move in 
circles and binding him to an area of the vampire’s choos-
ing. The vampire can trap a person in his own home: to the 
victim’s point of view the house folds back on itself, and all 
the exits lead back inside.
System: The vampire’s player must make a Charisma + 
Intimidation roll (difficulty of the target’s Willpower). The dif-
ficulty increases by 2 if the character cannot speak to her chosen 
victims, telling them they cannot escape. For each success, the 
character may affect one victim. The effects last a full scene.
Normally, the power is used in a multi-room structure 
such as a house or a good-sized Setite temple, or an outside 
area about the same size, such as a section of woodland. A 
much larger area (anything from an office tower to a neighbor-
hood) reduces the difficulty by 1 and increases the duration 
to a full day. If the vampire wants to trap a victim within a 
single room, the character must expend a point of Willpower. 
A character must also expend a Willpower point to use the 
Mental Maze upon supernatural victims such as werewolves, 
mages, other vampires or ghouls.
MET System: You must win a Mental Challenge against 
the target to establish a Mental Maze. Trapping a victim in a 
single room requires expending a Willpower Trait.


Clanbook: Setite
68
Confusion of the Eye (Obfuscate Level 6)
This power extends the effect of Mask of 1000 Faces to 
another person in a specialized way. While under the influence 
of this power, the victim perceives one other person of the 
vampire’s choosing as someone else. For instance, the victim 
might see and hear the city’s Sabbat archbishop as a mortal 
janitor, or a despised Anarch as a primogen whose favor the 
victim desires. The victim hears whatever the “masked” person 
says, but unconsciously explains away any inconsistencies in 
the person’s responses. If the “masked” person directly tries 
to persuade the victim of his true identity, the victim will 
prove hard to convince and may become angry.
System: This power costs one Willpower point to use. 
The vampire’s player makes a Willpower roll (difficulty of 
the target’s Willpower). If the roll succeeds, the victim sees 
one person, of the character’s choosing, as one other person 
of the character’s choosing. The effect lasts up to 24 hours.
The victim will rationalize or ignore most evidence that 
the “masked” person is not who he believes. If the “masked” 
person tries to convince the victim of her true identity, the 
victim receives a Willpower roll to throw off the Confusion 
of the Eye (difficulty 9, -1 per success the “masked” person 
might receive from a Charisma + appropriate Ability roll rep-
resenting her attempt to convince the victim of his delusion).
MET System: The power costs one Willpower Trait. 
Disguising the other person against his will requires success 
in a Mental Challenge against her.
Temptation (Presence Level 6)
This power lets a Setite tempt the victim into some ac-
tion that he normally wouldn’t do. This is usually some sinful 
action, but that’s up to the Setite: Temptation works just as 
well to provoke unwonted generosity as greed, or chastity as 
well as lust. The Setite must talk to the victim for at least a 
minute and allude to the action she wants the victim to perform.
System: To goad the victim, the character must receive 
a successful Manipulation + Leadership roll (difficulty of 
the target’s Humanity or Path of Enlightenment rating). A 
simple success results in a change to the victim’s personality 
and goals for a scene. If the number of successes exceeds the 
victim’s Conscience or Conviction rating, the change lasts 
indefinitely (although the victim may overcome it with time 
and expenditure of Willpower, like a Derangement).
The Setites have created many variations on this power, 
such as:
Obsession: The victim suffers an overpowering lust for 
a certain substance, action or condition. She may fly into a 
rage (the victim receives a frenzy check) if she cannot possess 
or experience the object of his desire before his next sleep.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
69
True Will: For a time, the victim is persuaded to act 
on any passing desire, or according to his Nature, without 
self-restraint.
MET System: The player must win a Mental Challenge 
against the target character to change the target’s desires for a 
scene. Repeated challenges can make the change permanent, by 
winning as many times as the target’s Conscience or Conviction.
Phobia (Presence Level 7)
By talking to her victim, the Setite can instill an irrational 
fear of a certain object, substance, person or condition. The 
object of the phobia can be broad (cars) or very specific (pink 
‘79 Fords) — although the victim must be able to recognize 
and distinguish what the vampire wants him to fear. The 
latter example, for instance, would not work on a person 
who was colorblind.
System: Implanting the Phobia requires success on a 
Manipulation + Intimidation roll (difficulty of the target’s 
Courage + 3). A simple success confers a Phobia that lasts a 
single scene. Rolling more successes than the victim’s Cour-
age results in a Phobia that lasts indefinitely, although the 
victim may overcome the Phobia as if it were a Derangement.
MET System: The player must win a Mental Challenge 
against the target character to instill a Phobia for a scene. 
Repeated challenges can make the change permanent, by 
winning as many times as the target’s Courage.
Corruption (Presence Level 8)
This terrible power enables a Setite to break down the 
mental barriers between the target’s Beast and libido. As a 
result, the victim becomes addicted to sadism as he takes 
pleasure in rage and aggression. The Setite can also reverse 
the connection, so that pleasure might rouse the Beast to 
frenzy. These two effects produce a spiral of desire and violence 
dragging the victim to madness.
System: To corrupt a victim, the player must pit the 
Setite’s Manipulation + Empathy vs. the victim’s Humanity 
(or Path of Enlightenment). If the Setite can accumulate 
net successes equal to the victim’s Humanity or Path rating, 
the victim suffers the Corruption effect. A character with a 
Humanity greater than 3 will automatically lose a point of 
Humanity for using this power (generally not a problem for 
the few elder Setites who know this power).
A corrupted victim must receive a frenzy check for anything 
that gives her pleasure, from sex to her favorite food. Like a 
frenzying vampire seeking blood, the victim will try to indulge 
her lust in the most brutal and immediate way. Note that Cor-
ruption works on mortals as well as vampires (although the 
human Beast is weaker, resulting in lower difficulties to resist 
frenzy). Conversely, a frenzying vampire might seek out more 
than blood in her rage. This may result in bizarre situations 
such as a maddened vampire smashing into a record store to 
hear his favorite music and killing anyone who tries to stop him.
The victim cannot overcome the Corruption by expending 
Willpower: Corruption is no mere induced derangement, but 
a fundamental alteration to the Curse of Caine. The Inconnu 
might know how to remove a Corruption — if they really do 
know the secret of Golconda. The Setite who laid the Corruption 
could remove it at will, but the Setites would probably urge the 
victim to view the Corruption as an opportunity for self-discovery.
MET System: The Setite’s player must pit the character’s 
Mental Traits against the target’s Humanity Traits to establish 
the Corruption. The victim receives normal frenzy checks 
whenever she engages in anything that gives her pleasure.
Combination Powers
The Setites also developed a few special “combination 
powers” for themselves. Given the choice, most Setites prefer 
to study their form of Thaumaturgy rather than to master a 
comparatively limited single power. Nevertheless, each of 
these three powers achieves some small fame through its 
usefulness. A Setite cult might distinguish itself from other 
cults by teaching a special combo-power. A Setite who devel-
ops an original combination power and offers to teach it to 
other clan members will probably raise his Status in the clan.
True Love’s Face 
(Obfuscate •••, Presence •••)
Through perfect combination of Mask of 1000 Faces 
and Entrancement, the Setite can appear to another person 
as someone he already loves. The Setite can choose to im-
personate someone she knows the victim loves. If she does 
not know of such a person, she can let the victim define his 
own “true love” and let the power do the rest. In that case, 
however, the Setite may have to use all her wits to discover 
who the victim thinks she is.
System: The Setite character receives a roll of Charisma 
+ Empathy (difficulty 6). Success means that the chosen victim 
sees the vampire as a loved one for as long as the vampire 
remains in her presence.
MET System: See Mask of 1000 Faces. The player must 
always expend a Mental Trait to use this power because the 
character always impersonates a specific person.
This power costs 18 experience points to learn. In MET, 
this power costs nine Experience Traits.
Typhonic Beast 
(Potence •••, Serpentis ••••)
Warrior Setites are most likely to learn this combination 
power. (The Setites also have a level 6 Serpentis version of 
this power.) The vampire takes the form of the mysterious 
Typhonic animal.
System: This power requires the expenditure of three 
blood points; the transformation takes three turns to complete. 
The transformed vampire gains one dot each of Strength, 
Dexterity and Stamina, as well as the benefits of Potence. 
The Typhonic form gains the soak benefits of Skin of the Ad-
der: the character’s soak difficulty drops to 5; and the vampire 
can use her Stamina to soak aggravated damage from claws 


Clanbook: Setite
70
and fangs, but not from fire, sunlight or magic. The Setite 
also gains the venomous bite of Form of the Cobra, doubles 
her running speed, and gains +2 dice on all Perception rolls 
related to smell or hearing.
The vampire remains in bestial form until the next 
sunrise, or until she voluntarily changes back. Clothing and 
other small personal items transform along with the vampire.
MET System: This power costs three Blood Traits. The 
character gains the Trait and damage bonuses from Skin of 
the Adder, but also the negative Social Traits. The character 
also gains a venomous bite, the Mental Trait of Observant x2 
and three added Physical Traits.
This power costs 21 experience points to learn. In MET, 
it costs 11 Experience Traits.
Weigh the Heart (Auspex •••, Serpentis 
•••••)
The ancient Egyptians believed that conscience and judg-
ment resided in the heart: in the afterlife the gods weighed a 
person’s heart, the record of his deeds, against the feather of 
truth. A Setite who has learned The Heart of Darkness can not 
only remove a vampire’s heart to keep it safe, he gains a potential 
insight into the consciences of others. He can develop that po-
tential through Auspex. Like the god, Thoth, a vampire with this 
power can “weigh” another person’s heart to read his character 
and sins. Such knowledge of another person’s character makes 
tempting, corrupting or teaching him much easier.
System: This power calls for a Perception + Empathy 
roll (difficulty 8). Each success reveals one truth about the 
target’s character, with particular emphasis on the person’s 
weaknesses, passions and guilts. The first truth is always the 
target’s Nature. Subsequent truths might include any Derange-
ments or mental Flaws, strong passions or deep-laid fears and 
guilts (although never specific details about specific crimes).
MET System: This power requires a Static Mental 
challenge with the difficulty of the target’s number of Mental 
Traits. If you succeed, you may ask the target’s player a ques-
tion about his character’s Nature or other strong personality 
traits, quirks or guilty secrets, and receive a truthful answer.
This power costs 24 experience points to learn. In MET, 
it costs 12 Experience Traits to learn.
Setite Thaumaturgy
The various branches of the Setite clan employ their own 
forms of Thaumaturgy. In some cases, these forms of blood 
magic are millennia older than the Thaumaturgy taught 
by the Tremere. Each version has its own style. All Setite 
magic, however, has a much stronger religious aspect than the 
mechanical, intellectual Thaumaturgy of the Tremere. Setite 
sorcery is blood magic, but each style employs the trappings 
and mythology of a religion to evoke and shape the magic.
Setite Sorcery: Akhu
The Followers of Set themselves use a combination of 
perverted funerary ritual, alchemy and the classic Egyptian 
magic of images and incantations. For instance, an Egyptian 
sorcerer might create a model of a person, creature or object, 
write magic words upon it, then pass it through incense smoke 
while chanting an invocation to a god. Most Setite rituals 
must be performed in a ritual chamber containing a cadaver 
stolen from a grave and mutilated according to the instructions 
in the Setite holy book, The Book of Going Forth by Night. 
The Setites believe that this desecrated corpse drains magical 
power from the Western Lands of Osiris: they employ magical 
power that they steal from the gods and from the dead souls 
in Osiris’ realm. The Egyptians called the magic used by the 
dead akhu; therefore, the Followers of Set use this word to 
describe their own sorcery, to distinguish it from the magic 
employed by mortals, called hekau.
Setite sorcerers employ Paths such as Corruption, the 
Snake Inside and the Dry Nile to detach mortals from their 
past lives, but other vampires exaggerate the Setite’s alleged 
obsession with such Paths. In olden times, Weather Con-
trol was the Setites’ most popular Path. Set was the god of 
storms, after all. Power over the weather matters a great deal 
in agricultural societies such as Egypt. In the most ancient 
times, before they hid from the world, Setite priests advised 
villagers to tithe generously in grain and blood — or did they 
like sandstorms destroying their crops in the night? Mastery of 
the weather still finds uses in these latter nights, from fogging 
in airports to raining out night baseball games.
Other Setite Paths include Spirit Manipulation (chiefly 
to evoke the spirits of the Egyptian underworld) and Con-
juring (to offer people their heart’s desire…for a time). A 
few Warrior Setites learn the Path of Mars, which they 
call the Valor of Sutekh. The Warrior Setites claim that 
they learned this Path from Set millennia ago, and that the 
Sabbat’s version is an imitation.
Serpents of the Light: Wanga
The Serpents of the Light draw their inspiration from 
Afro-Caribbean folk magic (chiefly Haitian Voudon and 
Cuban Palo Mayombe). As a general name for their magic, 
they use the Haitian term Wanga, but Cobras may also call 
their spells Bilongo, Ebbo or Malice (a Haitian term for any 
secret influence). Amulets and talismans are called Paquets 
Congo or Hands. A Wangateur also employs dozens of herbs, 
spices and mysterious powders. Other common paraphernalia 
include rum, candles, rattles, drumming, designs of sprinkled 
flour called Vevers — and blood sacrifice to appease the loa.
The Cobras’ magic has a strong necromantic cast. 
Whereas a Follower of Set would carry an Egyptian priest’s 
magic staff, a Serpent of the Light would brandish a Kisen-
gue, a human shinbone wrapped in black rags. Many rites 
involve the Nganga, a cauldron filled with blood, graveyard 
dirt, human and animal bones, iron spikes, blades and other 
disgusting ingredients too numerous to mention. Many Cobra 
sorcerers actually study the Discipline of Necromancy; the 
Serpents of the Light use Wanga to refer to both Necromancy 
and Thaumaturgy.


Chapter Two: After Such Knowledge
71
Spirit Manipulation is far and away the most popular 
Path among Serpent of the Light magicians. Those Cobras 
who practice actual Necromancy favor the Sepulcher Path 
and seldom learn any other. The Wangateurs remember the 
ancient Setite Paths of Corruption, the Dry Nile and the 
Serpent Within, but give them different names. The Dry Nile 
becomes Blinding Chango, for instance, while the Serpent 
Within becomes Zarabanda’s Malice. The Cobras value these 
three Paths for their use in cursing opponents.
Daitya Sadhana
The Daitya call their magic Sadhana, an Indian word for 
magical arts. A practitioner of Sadhana is a Sadhu. Sadhana 
Paths are called Siddhi, “Attainments” — while rituals are 
called Tantras, “Instructions.”
Some of the Daitya Siddhis duplicate the effects of Paths 
known to other vampires. Movement of the Mind dem-
onstrates a Daitya’s psychic prowess through literal “mind 
over matter.” The Path of Conjuring shows an even deeper 
mastery through the ability to create objects (or even living 
creatures) by will, like a god. As supposed demons caught in 
flesh, the Daitya employ the Path of Spirit Manipulation to 
contact and employ their cousins in other worlds. The Daitya 
also possess a number of Paths unique to themselves, that 
duplicate the magic powers of Hindu legend: knowledge of 
the past and future, control of destiny, assuming other forms, 
instantaneous travel and many others.
Just like a mortal Hindu mystic, a Daitya magician must 
engage in long meditation and grueling austerities to unlock 
the mystic power of the Blood. Typical exercises include: fast-
ing nearly to the point of torpor; yoga exercises; breathing 
exercises, such as breathing in through the mouth and out 
through the nose at the same time; and exposure to heat, 
cold and other unpleasantness. Their rituals incorporate 
mystic symbols called yantras; mystic syllables or phrases 
called mantras; complex drawings called mandalas; mudras, 
or gestures with a variety of ritual implements; and elaborate 
sacrifices of blood, butter and the intoxicating plant-derived 
liquid called soma. Sadhana rituals demand great courage from 
a vampire, for the sacrifice is always by fire.
Tlacique Nahuallotl
The Tlacique too have their own style of blood magic, 
called Nahuallotl. A practitioner is called a Nahualli. The 
Tlacique lost most of their magic in the defeat by the Sab-
bat. Fewer than a dozen of their blood magicians survive to 
the modern nights. In game terms, the surviving Paths work 
the same way as Tremere Paths, right down to requiring a 
Willpower roll for all Path powers and an Intelligence + Oc-
cult roll for all rituals. The Tlacique independently created 
the Path of Blood and all their magicians begin with it as 
their primary Path.
Most Nahuallotl Paths are named after gods. Weather Con-
trol, for instance, they call the Breath of Quetzalcoatl; the Path of 
Corruption becomes the Secret Ways of Tezcatlipoca. They call 
the Path of Blood the Flower of the Divine Liquor. The Tlacique 
also preserve versions of the Lure of Flames (Huehueteotl’s Glory) 
and Spirit Manipulation (Rites of Tezcatlipoca)
As befits religious magic, Nahuallotl involves sacrifice. While 
expending the power in his blood and praying for the appropri-
ate god’s help, a nahualli sheds a few drops of vitae as a token 
offering. The Tlacique regard Blood from the tongue, earlobe or 
genitals as especially suitable for magic. Traditionally, Tlacique 
blood magicians carry a large cactus spine with which to pierce 
themselves. In the rituals, the magician adds a sacrifice of the life 
of an animal — or a human. Every ritual over level 5 involves 
human sacrifice. Not many such rituals survive, though.
Q. V.
The Paths of Thaumaturgy mentioned in this section 
may be found in these supplements:
Blood: Vampire: the Masquerade Revised Edition
Conjuring: Vampire: the Masquerade Revised Edition
Corruption: Guide to the Camarilla
The Dry Nile: Blood Magic
Lure of Flames: Vampire: the Masquerade Revised 
Edition
Mars: Guide to the Sabbat
Movement of the Mind: Vampire: the Masquerade 
Revised Edition
The Snake Inside: Blood Magic
Spirit Manipulation: Guide to the Camarilla
Weather Control: Guide to the Camarilla


Clanbook: Setite
72


Chapter Three: Broken Images
73
Chapter Three: 
Broken Images
If anything unites the Followers of Set, it must be faith. 
Orthodox Setite or Serpent of the Light, Theophidian 
fanatic or neonate naïf, the Children of Rebellion serve or 
seek something greater than themselves. Some kneel before 
idols of their divine forebear. Others barely know their An-
tediluvian’s name. They fervently believe in other things: 
Anything from forbidden secret lore to the art of the deal. 
They see some deeper meaning in whatever passion they 
pursue, and they would like to share that vision — whether 
you want it or not.
Every religion, moral code or political ideology defines 
limits of belief and behavior. Anything beyond those limits 
O thou that drawest toward the End of The Path, effort is no more. 
Faster and faster dost thou fall; thy weariness is changed into Ineffable Rest.
For there is no Thou upon That Path: Thou hast become The Way.
— Aleister Crowley, The Book of Lies
is forbidden. Even the most ignorant vampire, however, must 
inevitably learn one truth. They are monsters, creatures of the 
outer dark, breachers of boundaries between the permitted 
and the forbidden. This realization horrifies many vampires; 
the Setites embrace it. Some even glory in their transgressive 
power, regarding it as divine.
Here we explore the range of Setite character as it 
twists, serpent-like, through diverse societies, histories and 
professions. Here you will find no gangsta drug pushers, mad 
priests or pimps. Such simple archetypes are already well 
known and a bit obvious. The dangerous Serpent is the one 
you do not see.


Clanbook: Setite
74
Psychiatrist
Quote: That’s very interesting, Richard. Why do you believe 
you can never act on this fantasy?
Prelude: Compassion for a patient drew you to the Cult 
of Set. She came to you for help in curing her attraction to 
prepubescent boys. You and your future sire wrestled over her 
soul for six months before he noticed you. A competitive sort, 
he found you a worthier challenge. He soon found that no 
common appetite or obsession could break you….
…But break you he did. Your patient went to jail for 
molesting a twelve-year old, but pregnant with your child. 
You met your sire when he walked into your office and showed 
you photographs of your trysts. You groveled and promised 
him anything if he would spare your career.
You endured many lessons after that. Your sire taught 
you more than you ever dreamed about the murky depths of 
human souls, especially your own, before he Embraced you.
Now you only meet patients at night. Now you are the 
guide. Papa Freud said that repressed desires and anxieties 
cause neurosis, depression and other mental disorders. With 
your help, patients stop repressing. Most of the time you can 
help them avoid prosecution afterward, too.
Concept: Every night, you wade through the vilest 
sewers of the human spirit. Great Set, it’s invigorating! 
The religion might not matter much to you, but 
you fully accept the clan’s message (as you see it) 
of mental health through self-indulgent degrada-
tion. Under your guidance, patients don’t sink into 
the depths — they dive. “Malpractice” is not nearly 
strong enough a word for your style of psychiatry. 
By now, however, your herd of present and former 
patients includes many people from your city’s politi-
cal, business and professional elite. They gladly do 
favors for the therapist who made them the happy 
men and women they are 
today…and besides, you 
keep photographs just like 
your sire did. Your 
patients really, really 
don’t want anything 
bad to happen to you.
Roleplaying Tips: Listen 
intently and sympathetically to 
what other people say. Draw them 
out. When someone admits to a socially 
dubious desire, analyze it and treat it as 
normal and healthy. Explain that one can 
only move beyond desires and fantasies 
by experiencing them. You genuinely 
believe that you help people.
Equipment: Tweed suit, couch, note-
book, an amazing little black book of addresses, 
a safe-deposit box full of even more amazing 
photos, ghoul secretary.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
75
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Psychiatrist
Followers of Set
13th
Judge
Pedagogue
Presence (Awe, Dread Gaze,
Entrancement)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Dignified
Diplomatic
Discerning
Knowledgeable
Rational
Wily
Empathyx2
Etiquette
Investigation
Agile
Lithe
Quick
Eloquent
Empathetic
Persuasivex2
Science
(psychology)
Streetwise
Alliesx1
Herd x 1
Resources x 3
Wise
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Mystic Artist
Followers of Set
11th
Celebrant
Visionary
Auspex (Heightened Senses)
Presence (Awe)
Serpentis (Eyes of the Serpent,
Tongue of the Asp)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified
Empathetic
Expressivex2
Creative
Discerning
Insightfulx2
Intuitivex3
Craftsx2
Empathy
Expression
Finance
Dexterous
Resilient
Tenacious
Ingratiating
Occult
Streetwise
Subterfuge
Contactsx2
Gererationx2
Occultx1
Underworldx1


Clanbook: Setite
76
Mystic Artist
Quote: Not a literal portrait, no. The painting shows you 
as the god Geb, after he broke his promise to his son Set and gave 
the throne of Egypt to another. What? A mere fancy of mine, 
Lord Prince. It means nothing.
Prelude: The past is a dull and evil dream to you. As a 
child, you enjoyed drawing but put that aside to play socially 
accepted sports that would help you fit into the group. Later 
you went to a good college and became a…lawyer? Business-
man? It involved lots of talking to people you didn’t like, lots 
of money and lots of pressure. Along the way you acquired a 
house, a wife you didn’t love and two children.
Pressure demands release: a little cocaine to give you 
an edge at work, a little booze to help you relax afterward, a 
hooker or a hustler now and then to satisfy the desires that 
your wife would not understand…. You moved to wilder 
debaucheries until the Temple found you. The Followers of 
Set taught you desires and degradations you could not have 
imagined. Cocaine paled next to vitae, and the dominatrix’ 
lash had nothing on squirming through a trough of shit to 
earn your next fix from your domitor.
Your sire broke you. You lost your money, your job, your 
family and any trace of self-respect. In the wreckage, you found 
your soul and immortality through the grace of Set.
Now you draw and paint again. Your long-
suppressed talent consumes you with demands 
more fierce than the Beast. You combine 
contemporary scenes with the mythology 
of ancient Egypt to reveal and glorify Set’s 
hidden influence in the world. Sometimes 
you show the secret hand of the Aeons instead, 
but not to glorify them. Your talent and insight 
make you a rising star among the Followers of Set.
Concept: You care nothing for Jyhads, 
only for your art. Nevertheless, your 
artistic devotion and the grace of 
Set make you uncannily percep-
tive. Exquisitely sensitive to 
the slightest nuances of speech, 
expression and the details of a 
scene, you intuitively “read” 
people as if you were psychic 
and extract information 
from tiny clues like Sher-
lock Holmes. It all comes 
out in your art: When you 
paint someone’s portrait, 
you may unconsciously place 
him a scene that reveals more 
about his personality and activi-
ties than he would like anyone to 
know! You see this as Set’s gift. Others 
in your clan see it as a tool for finding 
out the secrets of Kindred and kine. To 
the people you paint…. Well, you’d better hope that they 
never discover your “gift.”
Roleplaying Tips: Maintain a dreamy detachment 
from everything except your art. Don’t talk about Set’s 
glory very often — it bothers people — but wax raptur-
ous when you do.
Equipment: Sketchpad, charcoal pencils, easel, 
paints, shabby clothes, beat-up car with room in back 
for art supplies.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
77
Superspy
Quote: Actually, I do bite. <wink>
Prelude: Ever since childhood, you wanted to be a spy. 
You loved spy books and movies and TV shows, everything 
from James Bond to Get Smart. You took lessons in boxing 
and shooting, languages and electronics. When you graduated 
from college your government accepted you into its service.
Real spy work wasn’t all shootouts in Monte Carlo. 
Patiently, you served your time in HumInt (Human Intel-
ligence), mostly just talking to ordinary people. Once in a 
while you discovered a small scandal or found employable 
local criminals. Diligent effort won you promotions and 
training in intrusion, interrogation, wiretapping and other 
juicy skills. Bring on the evil masterminds! Please.
Your big break came in Alexandria. Not only did you find a 
radical politician’s favorite bordello, you planted bugs and cameras 
in the rooms of his favorite girls! They catered to men with, um, 
exotic tastes — appetites you had to simulate to gain access to 
their rooms — but you made the sacrifice for your country….
All the while, your sire watched you. How could you have 
known that the whorehouse was a Setite front? Your sire noticed 
that you weren’t what you seemed and captured you. Despite 
your training, you told her everything. She laughed. You 
don’t remember what happened after that, but 
you woke up back in the American embassy as 
a vampire. Your sire gave you an hour-long 
briefing on your condition. She explained 
why you really shouldn’t tell your superiors 
about your transformation — and that 
despite your disbelief in Set, you would 
serve Him as well as your country.
She was right, too. You left Egypt, but 
somehow the Followers of Set always find you. 
Sometimes you spy on other vampires for them, 
sometimes on the kine. In return, your Setite contacts 
feed you information about foreign governments, 
radical groups and other intelligence targets. You 
wish you could tell them to go to Hell, but 
the information is too good! Besides, they’ve 
shown you conspiracies and masterminds 
beyond the dreams of paranoia. When you 
sabotage, subvert and spy upon this “Camarilla” 
and “Sabbat,” you actually help free your country 
from the influence of vampires. Don’t you?
Concept: Beneath your façade of 
cool professionalism, you revel in games 
of deceit and death. Your Mentor is 
actually the intelligence agency that 
employs you, while your Allies and 
Contacts represent the Setite cult. 
Between your vampiric powers and 
the information you buy through 
service to the cult you have at 
last become the lone wolf who 
achieves results impossible for lesser agents. You hate 
dividing your loyalties…but your need to win and be 
seen winning addicts you as thoroughly as any drug.
Roleplaying Tips: Like any proper superspy you’re 
cool, confident and use lots of flirty double-entendres 
when speaking to attractive people of the opposite sex. 
For a “secret” agent, you use Presence an awful lot to 
make yourself fascinating (aiding your frequent seduc-
tions) and the center of attention. 
You dispatch “enemy agents” 
with cruel efficiency when 
you must, but would rather 
make an ironic quip. Never 
forget that you must keep 
your mortal bosses happy 
enough that they excuse 
new “eccentricities” 
such as only working 
at night.
E q u i p m e n t : 
Glock 17L automatic 
pistol (with screw-on 
silencer and shoulder 
holster), electronic sur-
veillance gear, lockpick 
set in a fountain pen, 
nondescript car, fake ID, 
kevlar vest under tailored 
suit.


Clanbook: Setite
78
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Superspy
Followers of Set
13th
Competitor
Survivor
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows,
Unseen Presence)
Presence (Awe)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Charmingx2
Commanding
Attentive
Cunning
Shrewd
Wily
Athletic
Brawl
Firearms
Investigation
Wiryx2
Dexterous
Lithe
Elegant
Genial
Seductive
Linguistics
Security
Streetwise
Subterfuge
Alliesx2
Contacts x 2
Mentorx2
Resourcesx1
Robust
Streetx1
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Entrepeneur
Followers of Set
10th
Rogue
Rogue
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows)
Presence (Awe)
Serpentis(Eyes of the Serpent)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguilingx2
Friendly
Genialx2
Attentivex2
Cleverx2
Cunning
Wily
Empathy
Etiquette
Expression
Wiry
Nimble
Quick
Ingratiatingx2
Finance
Streetwise
Subterfuge
Contacts x 1
Generationx3
Resourcesx2
Tireless
Financex1
Industryx1
Politicalx1


Chapter Three: Broken Images
79
Entrepreneur
Quote: What better way to show your faith in the Dark God 
than with our complete line of stylish yet inexpensive Followers 
of Set jewelry?
Prelude: Your sire Embraced you to help with his finances; 
he didn’t like ghouls. He was a great religious artist of the 
Setites, widely honored for his simulated antiquities, but he 
had no sense when it came to money. You served faithfully, 
thanks to a blood bond, until a crazed vampire hunter destroyed 
your sire. You killed the hunter yourself mere seconds later. 
That’s how you inherited a tidy bank account, a well-stocked 
workshop and a list of contacts within the clan.
Unfortunately, your sire never bothered to tell you very 
much about actual Setite beliefs…or the existence of other 
vampires besides the Followers of Set…or the conflicts that 
wrack the undead. As far as you know, all vampires are Fol-
lowers of Set and a ready market for all things Egyptian. Freed 
from the mental fog of the blood bond, you can see that your 
sire missed a wonderful business opportunity in his devotion to 
hand craftsmanship. You rented machines, recruited workers 
for your new little factory and mailed out flyers to everyone 
in your sire’s little black book:
SUTEKH’S TREASURES TRADING COMPANY
Figurines — Scarabs — Ankhs — Jewelry
Budget Treasures for Life and Beyond!
Discounts for Bulk Orders
You’re especially proud of the plastic figurine of Set you 
can hang from a car’s rear-view mirror. It glows in the dark!
The orders and the money don’t roll in the way you 
expected, though. In fact, you’ve received a few nasty let-
ters. So you placed ads in New Age magazines, hoping to 
attract mortal customers. Oh, you won’t let slip anything 
about vampires — but one way or another, you’ll find a 
way to make this “Followers of Set” thing pay.
Concept: You’re an enthusiastic small businessman 
who just happens to be a vampire. In your 
ignorance you have already offended 
several powerful Setites with your crass 
commercialization of their religion. 
Other vampires have not yet noticed 
your attempts to merchandise the Dark 
God to gullible mortals because they 
don’t read the obscure magazines where 
you advertise. When they do, they will 
try to stop you (perhaps terminally). 
From most vampires’ point of view, just 
using the phrase “Followers of Set” breaks 
the Masquerade.
Roleplaying Tips: Glad-hand 
everyone you meet, talk quickly and 
loudly, and try to sell them something. 
You’d sell sharpened stakes (in decorator 
colors) to the vampire-hunter who came to kill 
you. You are almost uncannily pure and simple in your 
pursuit of profit; your lack of a secret agenda will confuse 
other vampires.
Equipment: Pepper spray (you still worry 
about muggers), off-the-rack suit and tie, scarab 
ring, Set’s-head tie tack, small factory, boxes of 
mock-Egyptian kitsch.


Clanbook: Setite
80
Schoolmaster of Sin
Quote: Why yes, Mrs. Jones, our school does impart values 
— highly traditional values.
Prelude: You became a teacher because you loved 
children: Their carefree laughter, their wide-eyed, innocent 
curiosity, their small, lithe bodies so smooth to the touch…
you were quite a careful child molester. One time you weren’t 
quite careful enough. The DA failed to convict, but you lost 
your job. The Followers of Set found you, however, and they 
offered to make your wildest fantasies come true.
They did, too. You could do anything you wanted. Then 
you killed one of your catamites in a moment of rage. When 
the boy reappeared the next night whole, unharmed and 
asking if you’d like to kill him again, your last trace of sanity 
and morality snapped. Slowly, your sire put your mind back 
together, helped you understand your cravings and move 
beyond them. At last he honored you with the Embrace.
The Followers of Set gave you a new identity to go with 
your new personality and unlife. Now you run a small, private 
school of your own, where the teenage sons and daughters 
of the elite learn to become leaders. Graduates of your little 
academy all test in the 99th percentile; you also teach them 
how to lust without affection, analyze without compassion and 
exploit others without remorse. Your charges 
become ambitious little sociopaths — and 
their parents couldn’t be happier.
Concept: You still love children, but 
now you molest minds instead of bodies. 
Wealthy parents place their children in 
your hands so they will be successful when 
they grow up. You give them what they want. 
Children leave your school as Setites in 
spirit; you introduce the most promis-
ing to the actual worship of Set. All 
of your pupils soon revere you as 
their mentor. As graduates of your 
school move up the ranks of busi-
ness, government and academia, 
your web of influence grows. Thus 
do you serve the Dark God.
Roleplaying Tips: Rationally 
dissect any viewpoint based on morals 
or emotions, making it look foolish and 
counterproductive. Cuddle children 
and give them treats when you get 
the chance, and encourage them to 
tell you all about their families.
Equipment: Tailored suit, stun gun in one 
pocket, candy in the other, SUV, boarding school 
several miles from the nearest town.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
81
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Schoolmaster of Sin
Followers of Set
13th
Monster
Pedagogue
Presence (Awe, Dread Gaze)
Serpentis(Eyes of the Serpent)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Dignified
Diplomatic
Clever
Disciplined
Insightful
Knowledgeable
Academics
Empathy
Etiquette
Graceful
Tenacious
Wiry
Elegant
Eloquentx2
Persuasive
Streetwise
Subterfugex2
Herdx 2
Resourcesx1
Retainersx2
High Societyx1
Politicalx2
Wily
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Transhumanist
Followers of Set
11th
Competitor
Visionary
Serpentis(Eyes of the Serpent,
Tongue of the Asp, Skin of the
Adder)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
Diplomatic
Expressive
Clever
Creative
Discerning
Disciplined
Academics
Computerx2
Crafts (Electronics)
Finance
Dexterous
Tough
Wiry
Ingratiating
Persuasive
Science
(Mathematics)
Security
Streetwise
Alliesx1
Contactsx1
Generationx2
Mentorx1
Streetx1
Knowledgeable
Observant
Rational
Resourcesx1
Retainersx1


Clanbook: Setite
82
Transhumanist
Quote: Immortality is closer than you think!
Prelude: You always wanted to live forever. It didn’t seem 
fair that a smart fellow like you should die, and you weren’t 
about to believe in childish superstitions such as an afterlife. 
Someday, you felt sure, science would find a way to make 
people immortal: Maybe through genetics, or transferring 
minds into computers. In pursuit of the latter goal, you became 
a computer programmer. You and a few like-minded friends 
started a small company producing bleeding-edge software.
The intense competition placed you under a lot of pressure. 
Caffeine and the legal “smart drugs” weren’t enough to sustain 20-
hour days for long. For one grueling job, you decided you needed 
something stronger. You became addicted to methamphetamines 
within a month. Eventually your drug habit brought you to the 
attention of your supplier’s own supplier, a Follower of Set.
At a rave, you met a fascinating woman. You babbled out 
all your dreams and ambitions for technological immortality, 
computer-enhanced intelligence, transformation of human 
meat into superhuman data. “You seek godhood,” the woman 
said, and you did not contradict her.
A week later the police raided your supplier, while you were 
there. Your business burned. Your lawyer won you a reduced sen-
tence, but not in a minimum-security prison. A hulking brute named 
Bruno took a fancy to you and visited every chance he got. When 
you left jail, you found the last of your money gone and the 
woman from the rave waiting. She had a place you could stay 
and put your life back together, and that’s how you found 
the Cult of Set. You’re still not sure 
you believe 
in Egyptian gods 
but you accept 
that Something Is 
Out There. After 
all, your sire made you 
really, truly immortal, 
with the sort of indestructible 
yet mutable body you imagined for 
post-humanity. What else might she 
be right about? What else might exist in 
this strange, secret World of Darkness?
Concept: You are an intensely 
religious atheist: Your God and heaven 
are your imagined post-human world 
created by super-science. Your sire, 
and the other Setites she consulted, 
see beyond the technobabble to a clas-
sically Gnostic yearning for divinity and 
liberation from the world. She brought 
you into the Cult of Set as a way to re-
direct your spiritual yearnings in a more 
productive direction. Meanwhile, the 
temple can use your technical skills. Besides…
what if you’re right? The Setites leave no stone 
unturned in their quest for divinity, and as a 
vampire you now have forever to work on the 
problem. If you successfully merge technomania 
with religious devotion, your sire’s cult will Embrace 
more transhumanists. If not, they will destroy you.
Roleplaying Tips: Annoy 
other people with rants about 
the limitless possibilities of 
technology. Describe future 
existence as a sentient program 
or part of a cyborg hive-mind, 
making it sound as horrible as 
possible while insisting that it’s 
paradise. Tell other vampires 
that the super-
natural doesn’t 
really exist, 
only things that 
science doesn’t 
understand yet. Engage in marathon 
sessions writing code. Lure your fel-
low tech-heads into the cult with 
promises of “mental techniques” 
they can use to push themselves 
beyond common humanity.
Equipment: Worn jeans, T-shirt 
with logo of European techno band, 
wearable computer you built yourself, 
electronic jewelry, taser, soldering iron, 
multimeter, bottled plasma spiked 
with “smart drugs,” books about ar-
tificial intelligence, nanotechnology, 
cryonics and other techno-fantasies, 
super-advanced haven security system.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
83
Gladiator
Quote: Hail, Typhon! We who are about to kill, salute you!
Prelude: School never worked very well for you, so you 
dropped out. Real life didn’t work very well, either. All you 
had to offer was a strong back and in your city the unions 
(and the Mob) kept all the well-paying teamster jobs reserved 
for the relatives of older members. You couldn’t afford to be 
too picky about the work you took; you never asked what 
was in the boxes, or why you beat someone up. Lot of times 
the world looked pretty dark and you wondered if you’d live 
to your thirtieth birthday.
After a bar brawl, a fellow commented that he liked the 
way you used your fists and you could make some real money 
that way. At first you thought he wanted another leg-breaker. 
Then he took you to the gym. You figured he worked for a fight 
promoter and wanted you to box or wrestle. You were half right….
Turned out, you became a darn fine gladiator once you ac-
cepted the discipline of training. You learned weapons as well as 
your fists. Pain meant nothing compared to the rush of people 
screaming your name, and after a while the pain and blood were 
usually the other guy’s. Along the way 
you learned what your bosses really 
were. That freaked you at first, but 
vampires didn’t matter any more 
than pain did, not after your first 
taste of vitae and a ghoul’s 
strength. You even started 
listening to the stuff 
about gods and rev-
elations, and if you 
didn’t understand 
the fancy philoso-
phy too well you 
really liked the 
‘tude. Your bosses 
decided that was enough.
You didn’t live to 
your thirtieth birthday. 
The Followers of Set 
gave you a better deal. 
You’ve said good-bye 
to the arena. Now your 
bosses want you to fight 
their enemies — and 
that suits you just fine.
Concept: You are 
the Legbreaker of the 
Gods. Not only do you 
inflict pain or death on 
your coterie’s enemies, 
they loan you out to other 
Setite groups. You’ve won 
some small reputation in the clan for 
your skill, enthusiasm and brutality.
Roleplaying Tips: Strut, swagger and scowl. Not only 
are you the baddest mofo in the night, you’re the childe 
of Typhon Set, the very God of Badasses! When you 
talk, throw in tough-guy taglines cribbed from action 
movies. Off-duty, keep some cute bit of tail hanging 
on your arm. You left real sex behind with mortal-
ity, but the Kiss is just as good (and you fake it well 
enough that the girls can’t tell the difference anymore).
Equipment: Shortsword (Roman gladius), 
bowie knife, wire net, length of chain and 
metal gauntlets (all plated silver in case 
you meet a Lupine), modern plastic and 
ballistic cloth body armor, helmet and 
riot shield, motorcycle.


Clanbook: Setite
84
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Gladiator
Warrior Setites
12th
Thrillseeker
Bravo
Potence (Prowess, Might)
Serpentis(Eyes of the Serpent,
Tongue of the Asp)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic
Commanding
Magnetic
Alert
Attentive
Cunning
Vigilantx2
Athletics
Brawlx2
Dodge
Brawnyx2
Dexterous
Ferociousx2
Meleex2
Streetwise
Contactsx1
Generationx1
Mentorx1
Streetx1
Underworldx2
Quick
Rugged
Tough
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Voodoo Queen
Serpents of the Light
13th
Director
Deviant
Presence (Awe, Dread Gaze)
Serpentis(Eyes of the Serpent)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguilingx2
Charmingx2
Commanding
Cunning
Insightfulx1
Shrewd
Wilyx2
Intimidation
Leadership
Medicine
Graceful
Lithe
Tenacious
Streetwisex2
Subterfugex2
Herdx2
Retainersx3
Politicalx2
Underworldx3
Gorgeous
Seductive


Chapter Three: Broken Images
85
Voodoo Queen
Quote: My help is spiritual as well as material. The saints 
will collect their own price, whether you know it or not.
Prelude: The police did not help you after the gang-rape. Not 
only were you a poor Latina with dark skin, the cops never touched 
the Red Cobras. Instead you asked a local Santería priest for a 
magical revenge…and he flatly turned you down. The Red Cobras 
had protection. His little bad-luck hexes would only annoy the One 
behind them. So you turned to a darker, more frightening magician, 
a man rumored to kill using the forbidden art of Palo Mayombe.
The mayombero was no mere mortal poisoner or peddler of 
bogus charms, but a Serpent of the Light. Your hatred intrigued 
him; he also felt his own enmity for the Red Cobras and the 
Setite whom they served. You became his pawn in a scheme to 
destroy the Red Cobras, and then his acolyte. He schooled you 
in rage, desire and power before making you his childe — and 
heir, when he and his nemesis destroyed each other.
You no longer blame the Red Cobras. They were strong, you 
were weak. They slaked their desires at your expense, as is right 
and proper. Then your rage made you strong and you slaked your 
own desire for revenge at their expense, as is equally right and 
proper. You gather your own gang, the Shining Vipers. You help 
others fulfill their right and proper desires, for a price. Some of your 
clients are mortal. Others are fellow vampires in a secret society 
called the Sabbat. Since participating in a pleasant bonding ritual 
called the Vaulderie you regard the Sabbat as friends, not that that 
stops you from exploiting them shamelessly.
Concept: You’re an archetypal Setite, up 
to your armpits in the vice trade, with a blood 
cult of fanatics and contacts uptown 
and down. You receive supplicants in 
your haven, a little botanica (a shop 
that sells “voodoo” paraphernalia such 
as herbs, candles and icons of saints). 
Unlike most Sabbat, you quite like 
humans (and not just as supper). You 
encourage your clients to live boldly, 
passionately and intensely — self-
destructively too, but that’s life. 
As a vampire, you plan to enjoy 
quantity and quality.
You do not, in any sense, 
worship your Antediluvian 
ancestor. Rather, you propitiate 
the gods of Palo Mayombe such 
as Zarabanda the Messenger, La 
Madre de la Luna and El Cristo 
Negro, King of the Dead. The 
Palo “spells” that you cast have 
no real power, except the power 
of suggestion and whatever toxins you 
might slip to a victim.
Roleplaying Tips: Fix your eyes on 
supplicants and say nothing until they 
either beg or become angry. Decide 
immediately whether to help them or not; surprise them with 
the swiftness of your decision. Wait until they cannot turn 
back before you ask for a favor in return. If they agree, 
make a supplicant’s life (or unlife) as pleasant as 
you can. If they refuse, laugh and say that soon 
they will gladly offer you much more. Carry 
out your threat, using the Shining Vipers, your 
criminal allies and fellow Sabbat to make their 
existence utterly miserable. You are Queen 
and Goddess: Insist on the 
appropriate courtesy, 
and reward reverence 
with gracious favor.
Equipment: 
Botanica, human 
shinbone scep-
ter, rattle 
covered in 
snake ver-
t e b r a e , 
d a g g e r, 
w h i t e 
robe and 
h e a d s -
carf, numerous 
necklaces and 
bracelets, heavily 
armed young men 
who worship you.


Clanbook: Setite
86
Debunking Scientist
Quote: Vampires? Say rather…some clever hoaxers. Would 
real vampires keep plastic fangs? When we analyze that bottle of 
‘blood,’ I dare say we’ll find some powerful stimulant as well.
Prelude: When most Westerners think of India they 
think of gem-encrusted idols, poverty, gurus and curry. Not 
many people know about India’s mathematicians, physicists 
and computer programmers. You are one such, a genuine ge-
nius with a degree in physics but also a dabbler in chemistry, 
biology and several other sciences. While still a post-doc you 
worked in India’s nuclear program; scientific journals around 
the world publish your papers. Your colleagues expect you 
will win a Nobel prize someday.
 As a modern scientist, of course you did not believe in 
the supernatural. When you attempted a bit of debunking to 
enlighten your countrymen, however, you ran into the Daitya. 
They debunked your skepticism. Your sire offered to show you 
the truth about the World of Darkness, but at a price: You 
must join their clan and you could never tell anyone else. 
After a terrible inner struggle, you agreed.
You still do research in physics, but moonlight as one 
of the world’s more famous debunkers. You travel the world 
investigating reports of psychic powers, fringe medicine, curses, 
alien intruders and even — ha ha — vampires. 
Each time, you produce a natural explanation 
or expose a fraud. Sometimes that’s even the 
truth. If you do find anything supernatural, you 
cover it up or steal it for your sire’s temple. So 
far, no one has noticed your own eccentricities.
Concept: Caught between modern science 
and ancient magic, you hide the truth from mortals 
so that you may know the truth yourself. You cannot 
deny the reality of the supernatural. Are the Daitya 
elders right about gods and demons too? You’ve 
merged their teachings with your own 
physics to some degree, mastering the 
rudiments of one important siddhi. 
If you please your elders, perhaps 
they will teach you enough that 
you can find some kind of scientific 
logic to it all.
Roleplaying Tips: Adopt a 
confident, know-it-all manner. 
Speak of making tests and inquiry 
with an open mind, but leave no one 
in doubt that you will find a natural 
explanation for everything. Of course, 
your Thaumaturgic power to materialize 
whatever props you require means that 
you can always find evidence to back 
up your theories. As much as the 
truth, you crave the awed expression of other people when 
you prove that you are right again.
Equipment: Rumpled professorial garb, satchel of 
scientific instruments (many of them you built yourself), 
programmable scientific calculator.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
87
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Debunking Scientist
Daitya
13th
Gallant
Judge
Presence (Awe) Serpentis(Eyes 
of the Serpent, Tongue of the
 Asp) Thaumaturgy: Conjuring 
(Summon the Simple Form)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified
Intimidation
Persuasive
Clever
Creative
Knowledgeablex2
Observantx2
Academics
Craft(Apparatus)
Investivation
Dexterousx2
Enduring
Quick
Occult
Science(Physics)x2
Streetwise
Contactsx2
Mentorx1
Resourcesx1
Universityx2
Politicalx1
Steady
Rational
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Nativ e Rights Activist
Followers of Set (Tlacique)
11th
Autocrat
Fanatic
Presence (Awe)
Protean (Eyes of the Beast,
Feral Claws)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Dignified
Eloquent
Intimidating
Alert
Dedicated
Determinedx2
Observant
Academics
Expression
Lawx2
Dexterous
Enduring
Quick
Politics
Streetwise
Subterfuge
Alliesx2
Generationx2
Mentorx2
Resourcesx1
Politicalx2
Tough
Shrewdx2
Persuasivex2


Clanbook: Setite
88
Native Rights Activist
Quote: You sucked the life from my people for 500 years. 
It’s time you gave some back.
Prelude: You never forgot where you came from. Your 
parents were poor, hardscrabble peasants — like their parents 
before them — all the way back to the Spanish conquest. The 
village priest noticed how smart you were as a child. He not 
only taught you to read and write, he found you a place in a 
nearby town’s school. After that you worked your way through 
university. When you had your law degree you returned to your 
province, to win back your people’s rights from the Spanish 
landlords. The landlords didn’t take too kindly to your efforts 
and they took the fight outside the courtroom. Fortunately, 
someone else noticed your struggle as well.
As you lay bleeding in a ditch, a native man in the most 
amazingly old-fashioned garb said you would not die yet. 
He took the last of your blood and made you immortal. The 
landlord who ordered your murder became your first meal.
Your sire showed you that the oppression of your people was 
not confined to the living. The rich men and their soldiers were 
nothing compared to the undying tyrants of the Sabbat. The 
landlords merely took the peasants’ labor; the Sabbat took their 
lives! You still fight in court for your people’s rights (through 
proxies, or when you can arrange a nighttime trial) — 
but you also gather money and weapons for the struggle 
against the vampires who stole the night, and 
then strip away their assets through lawsuits 
and sabotage. Sometimes your missions carry 
you north to native communities in America. 
Once in a while you and the rest of your sire’s 
brood can attack the Sabbat more directly. 
You must exercise utmost care, though. 
Your sire stresses that if the Sabbat 
ever learns that the Tlacique still 
exist, the entire clan is doomed.
Concept: You are a sophisti-
cated insurgent, equally at home 
in rebel encampments and city 
courtrooms. The struggles for 
native rights, land reform and 
driving out the Sabbat merge for 
you: For instance, you might 
dupe revolutionary soldiers 
into attacking a Sabbat lair. 
You must maintain a double 
Masquerade, though. Not only 
must you hide your vampirism 
from mortals, you must hide 
your true clan allegiance from 
other vampires. (If anyone is 
rude enough to ask, you claim 
you are a Gangrel.)
Roleplaying Tips: No one could doubt your devotion 
to native rights. You back up heated words with tireless 
labor — legal, financial and occasionally homicidal. 
Nor could anyone doubt your hatred of the 
Sabbat. Beneath the politics, however, lies a 
burning commitment never to submit to anyone 
again; rather, others will submit to you. Even your sire 
must defer to your knowledge of the modern world, 
and you know it despite the respect you show him.
Equipment: Inexpensive suit, fatigues, native 
jewelry, legal briefs, Uzi submachinegun, machete.
Note: Players who have the Vampire Story-
teller’s Handbook may want to replace the Allies 
Background with the Military Force Background 
described in that supplement.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
89
Sample Brood: The 
Repairers of Reputations
The Followers of Set tempt in many ways, not all of them 
obvious. The Setites who call themselves the Repairers of Reputa-
tions choose a paradoxical course: they suppress scandal. Everyone 
commits the occasional peccadillo, or makes a fool of himself. 
For a fee the Repairers will concoct alibis, silence witnesses and 
discredit accusers. In the true Setite fashion, however, they may 
extract rather more payment than the client expects.
The Repairers of Reputations operate wherever the Sto-
ryteller wants them to. They might set up shop in a chronicle’s 
“home city,” or perhaps characters will have to come to them. 
Wherever a Storyteller chooses to place this coterie, they will 
entangle themselves in other vampires’ intrigues. Camarilla, 
Sabbat or independent — many vampires eventually need a 
reputation repaired.
Using the Repairers  
of Reputations
Storytellers can use the Repairers of Reputations in several 
ways, but these Setites do not make a very good opponent for 
physically oriented coteries and chronicles. If threatened with 
violence, they run away or try to make a deal — and take revenge 
later (hired assassins with sniper rifles and incendiary ammuni-
tion, say, or burning down a haven at noon). The Repairers 
would rather stay everyone’s friends; they don’t look for trouble.
Characters will more probably oppose the Repairers socially. 
The Repairers have lots and lots of friends whom they protect, 
and who protect them in turn. In particular, if the characters 
attempt a spot of blackmail, they may well drive their victim to 
the Repairers of Reputations. In that case, the characters find 
their own reputations under attack from every angle.
On the other hand, the players may decide that their 
characters need the Repairers’ services. Unless the Storyteller 
is amazingly lenient, players do have a knack for getting their 
characters into trouble! Given a choice between dealing with 
Setites and becoming the star attraction in a Blood Hunt, 
characters may prefer the Setites.
Anyone who values their good name might hire the Repairers 
of Reputations. Much of their clientele consists of adulterous wives 
and husbands, people with gambling debts, government officials 
drunk in public, and other mortals guilty of similar embarrassments. 
The clients pay in cash, information about confidential matters 
entrusted to them, and promises to assist in repairing the reputations 
of other clients. Some customers find themselves on indefinite 
retainer, as it were, if the Serpents judge them sufficiently useful 
and sufficiently desperate. The Repairers keep detailed records of 
every scandal concealed, including videotape of the client ask-
ing for help and any forensic evidence that the coterie might 
have kept out of police hands. Thus do the Serpents build an 
ever-expanding web of people who owe them favors.
Serving the Setites has its compensations. It’s much easier 
to protect a reputation in advance. If a former client wishes to 
continue indulging some undignified appetite, the Repairers 
can help them do so discreetly…albeit on film. They may invite 
regular clients to join the Cult of Set. Most customers find it 
prudent to accept. Eventually they learn not to regret their choice.
Vampires need reputations repaired too. Possible offenses 
include failure to repay a boon when asked, endangering the 
Masquerade, poaching on another vampire’s turf, bungling 
an assignment from the prince or archbishop, accidental 
cooperation with vampires of another sect, or truly extreme 
crimes such as diablerie. The Serpents handle it all, although 
the greater the risk to themselves the greater service they will 
demand in return. After all, if someone catches them covering 
up a capital offense, they might become a Blood Hunt target.
The brood consists of four vampires. Ahmose Chambers, the 
nominal priest and leader, actually fronts for his sire Sahira Siraj, 
who pretends to be Ahmose’s childe. The other two vampires, 
the drag queen, Belle Equitone, and the pharmacist, Jim Gander, 
genuinely are Ahmose’s childer. The brood also has a single 
ghoul servitor, the loathsome but technically skilled Topcat.
Influence
The Repairers of Reputations possess a lot of influence, at least in 
the local area. Dozens — maybe hundreds — of men and women 
at every level of society are pleased to help them in small ways. 
Mortals within the network can create or quash news stories, steer 
or sabotage police investigations, submit false testimony in court, 
obtain nearly any mundane commodity (legal or otherwise), search 
for people in hiding, and do all manner of legwork.
Truth be told, the Repairers wield far greater social influence 
than any local prince or elder. Other vampires tend to jealously 
hoard their own power. The Repairers cooperate to collect far 
more Contacts, Allies and Influence than any vampire could 
acquire on her own. Rather than waste time with dice rolls, Story-
tellers can simply ask themselves: Could a dozen ordinary people, 
who happen to occupy the right social positions, achieve some 
feat? If so, the Repairers of Reputations can probably arrange it.
Consider, for instance, a murder case. Leave aside the District 
Attorney and the judge (that’s too easy). If a lab technician bungled 
the forensics tests and contaminated the blood samples — if two or 
three people, with no apparent connection between them, swore 
they saw the defendant at times and places consistent with each 
other, but not with the murder — if one policeman testified to the 
arresting officer’s hatred of the defendant’s race, creed or class — a 
jury might feel bound to acquit. That’s what a mere half-dozen 
people could do. A full dozen could produce a terrifyingly convincing 
frame-up to exonerate the guilty — or convict an innocent man.
Actual homicide or other major felonies, however, challenge 
the Retainers’ resources. Even they have some small trouble hiring 
skilled assassins, cat-burglars or other professional criminals. Some 
former clients might fear them enough to commit murder on their 
behalf, but such persons are less reliable and never available in large 
numbers. In such cases, Storytellers should consider the Repairers 
limited by their actual dots in Backgrounds. They command the loyalty 
of dozens, but they can only recruit a few skilled people as temporary 
Retainers or Allies at any one time. Still, their power to arrange 
events through mundane operatives should leave characters 
thoroughly paranoid. Once they suspect how far the Retainers’ 


Clanbook: Setite
90
serpentine coils reach, neither players nor characters should ever 
know exactly what happens by chance and what happens because 
the Repairers arranged it…and the Repairers are not above lying 
about current events to make themselves seem more omnipotent.
Haven
The Repairers of Reputations operate from a large, two-
story building that occupies about a quarter of a city block. It is 
located in one of the city’s older, run-down retail districts. This 
building contains several businesses. The building’s basement 
holds the Setites’ temple and well-protected havens, although 
two of the Setites also maintain havens elsewhere in the city.
The Repairers’ nominal leader, Ahmose, owns all the shops, 
but not all of them have any connection to the Setites’ true 
business. Some of the storekeepers are Setite Retainers; others 
are innocents who know nothing of the Serpents or their cult. 
There’s no way to know which is which, without mind-reading, 
torture or prolonged surveillance. Each Storyteller can decide 
for herself who’s a Setite agent and which businesses contain 
secret entrances to the Setite temple below.
All the businesses install excellent burglar alarm systems. 
Ahmose pays his B&O taxes, contributes to the policeman’s 
fund and slips the beat cops a little more on the side, so any 
alarm will bring a cop car within minutes.
Upper Floor
The building has two businesses on the upper floor, ac-
cessed from the street by a stairway between two storefronts.
Shiatsu Massage & Reflexology offers non-therapeutic mas-
sages. It also offers prostitution, but not on premise. The men and 
women who work there arrange their own “contracts” and have 
sex at the johns’ homes (or in by-the-hour hotel rooms), main-
taining the business’ plausible deniability. Of course everyone 
must pay their cut to the manager and, ultimately, to Ahmose.
Worldwide Cinema and Espresso is a micro-theater (400 
seats) that shows foreign films and sells designer coffee. Stu-
dents from the local university come and go at all hours of 
the day or night.
A second stairway leads to four apartments along a hallway 
that connects to back rooms of both Shiatsu and the theater. A 
third stairway leads down to the storage area on the ground floor.
Ahmose and Sahira supposedly live in one of the apart-
ments (it’s their mailing address). A secret stairway leads down 
to the temple complex. Another hidden panel opens onto a 
shaft with a fireman’s pole. (When he saw this, Jim Gander 
immediately dubbed this the Batpole, to Ahmose’s annoyance.)
Another apartment holds Jeffrey Molitor, an elderly 
retired accountant. Mr. Molitor is deaf and usually neglects 
to wear his hearing aid, which makes him an ideal tenant for 
Ahmose. Mr. Molitor will resist questioning with surprising 
tenacity, to protect his secret: he earns a little extra money 
by doing the books for Ahmose’s businesses (the legal ones, 
at least) and he doesn’t declare it on his taxes.
The other apartments remain vacant. Ahmose says they 
need repairs; actually he keeps them as havens for guests, 
Setite and otherwise. They boast excellent lightproofing.
Ground Floor
Each of the ground floor businesses connects to a single 
storage area running the length of the building. Tape on the 
floor marks off each business’ storage area. The boxes and 
crates contain perfectly innocent inventory and supplies.
The Sphinx Club is the public face for the Repairers of Repu-
tations. The decor features a large plaster sphinx, neon signs for 
Pyramid Ale, murals of Egyptian scenes and cobras painted on 
the doors. The Setites want to make it easy for potential clients 
among the city’s Kindred to find them. Sometimes Ahmose plays 
host. More often, one of the blood bound cultists performs this 
duty, and signals Ahmose when a client asks for the Serpents’ 
special services. The club has no direct entrance to the temple, 
hidden or otherwise, and cultists do not gather there.
The club sells overpriced booze, tacky atmosphere and belly-
dancing. Local singers also take the stage. Belle Equitone is the 
club’s default singer. The dancers are quite good, since Sahira 
trains them; they generate some serious sex appeal. Sahira herself 
often dances. The show never quite slides into a blatant strip. 
Patrons can buy a table dance, but not a “lap dance.” Ahmose 
forbids prostitution on the premises. What the girls do on their 
own time is their own concern (but he still wants a cut).
Worldwide Video is associated with the theater upstairs and 
has the same manager. In addition to the latest Hollywood hits, 
Worldwide Video offers a wide variety of foreign films. It has a 
large section of foreign porn, including pornographic animation.
Laundromat has no other name than that simple word. It 
stays open all day and all night, and offers dry cleaning as well 
as automat machines.
Hole In One Donuts offers conventional pastries and cof-
fee. The sign shows a golf club hitting a donut and the interior 
continues the golf theme, in a pathetic attempt at wit. It too 
stays open at all times. Local cops eat free.
The ground floor also contains at least two other businesses 
of the Storyteller’s choice.
Basement
The basement holds all the exciting stuff, carefully hidden 
behind locked and camouflaged doors. One open stairway down 
from the storage area leads to a small room with concrete floor 
and brick walls. This holds the central heating furnace and oil 
tank. The furnace room does not contain any hidden access 
to the temple and haven areas and the walls are foot-thick 
reinforced concrete behind the old brick. The Repairers of 
Reputations are not stupid enough to leave 100 gallons of fuel 
oil where an enemy could use it to burn them out!
In addition to the stairway and sliding pole from Ahmose’s 
apartment, two well-concealed stairways lead from the ground 
floor to the Repairers’ temple. Every cultist necessarily knows 
the location of both stairways. All four access routes hold the 
best burglar alarm systems that money can buy, keyed to alarms 
in the temple below.
A visitor first encounters the anteroom of the Setites’ temple. 
One wall holds lockers for cultists’ street clothes and their cult 
costumes. The shrine can accommodate up to 30 celebrants in 
as lush or grotesque a fashion as the coterie thinks appropriate.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
91
Locked doors with keypads lead from the antechamber to the 
vampires’ individual havens and the storerooms. The Repairers 
keep files on their clients, including photographs, videotapes and 
incriminating physical evidence, some of the latter in freezers. 
Everything is thoroughly fireproofed with brick and concrete 
construction, spartan metal furniture, smoke alarms, a sprinkler 
system and halon fire extinguishers in every room.
The complex also has two emergency escape routes. Twisting 
and pulling a particular wall sconce collapses a section of wall in 
the shrine’s inner chamber, providing an exit into the city storm 
drains. The Setites and cultists use this to escape if anyone raids 
the temple during a service. One minute later, this also detonates 
a large bomb hidden inside the statue to Set, providing a final 
sacrifice to the Dark God. Ahmose and Sahira’s haven holds 
another secret escape route. Sahira’s plain sarcophagus has a false 
bottom. When she presses a button inside the coffin, the bottom 
drops out and forms a simple barge that carries her away into 
the storm drains — her own River of Duat. Ahmose’s fancier, 
carved and gilded sarcophagus does not contain such an escape 
route, but opening the lid without pressing a hidden button 
within the next 15 seconds will trigger a loud alarm in Sahira’s 
coffin. Both coffins lock from the inside.
The Blood Cult
The Repairers of Reputations invite their most promising, 
or most frightened, recruits to join their blood cult. So far they 
have 16 cultists. They could double that number with ease, 
but a larger cult would be harder to hide. Most cultists receive 
only the most basic Setite doctrine of amoral self-indulgence 
and obedience to Set. Few receive Revelations of the Void and 
initiation into the deeper mysteries of war against the Aeons.
The Repairers hold worship services every Thursday night. 
(Why Thursday? It leaves the cultists’ weekends free for their own 
debaucheries. Besides, nobody expects unholy evil on Thursdays.) 
Members show up at the business block in the course of an hour. 
When all the cultists assemble in the shrine’s antechamber, they 
strip, wash face, neck and hands, and don Egyptian-style kilts of 
black and green. The vampiric acolytes then anoint the cultist’s 
heads with an unguent dosed with atropine, which the cultists absorb 
through the scalp during the ceremony. The atropine has a stimulant 
effect and causes pupil dilation, helping the cultists see in the dark.
After a final appeal for Set’s blessing, the acolytes open the 
doors to the inner chamber and the cultists file in to the sanctum. 
Illumination comes from black-light bulbs in wall sconces and a gas 
burner placed between the altar and the statue of Set. Ahmose stands 
by the altar dressed in a black robe and a black and fluorescent green 
nemyss (the Egyptian headdress), carrying a priest’s rod of ebony and 
gold. He welcomes the cultists in Set’s name.
The cultists sing hymns of praise to the Dark God. Ahmose 
leads them in a chant-and-response reviling Ra and Osiris, the Light 
and the Law. Ahmose implores the god to come while he burns 
the blood of a sacrificed chicken or stray pet in the gas flame. As 
the smoke of the sacrifice wreathes both priest and idol, Ahmose 
activates the Mask of 1000 Faces and Dread Gaze. When he 
turns around, the cultists see Great Set in all his dreadful glory.
Ahmose as Set announces himself and demands that the 
cultists abase themselves. That done, Ahmose switches to Awe 
and announces that he is pleased — but they must prove their 
reverence through personal sacrifice, offering him and his acolytes 
their blood, their life itself. Ahmose strides through the groveling 
cultists, bidding them rise to accept the bite of himself or one of 
the other vampires. The Serpents take only one blood point per 
cultist — at four blood points per vampire, still a respectable feeding.
If the Repairers know that a cultist betrayed them, or utterly 
bungled some task, Ahmose announces this fact and decrees the 
cultist’s death. He and the other vampires drain the hapless cultist 
dry. The Dark God has no mercy upon those who betray him!
At the end of the feeding, Ahmose-as-Set says that as the 
cultists gave their life to him, he shall give his life to them. Ah-
mose drips a little of his blood into a chalice of beer and passes 
it to the cultists as a sacrament. (This is not nearly enough to 
ghoul the cultists, but it reinforces their blood bonds.)
Ahmose then calls out one cultist, names his desire (already 
well known to the Repairers) and invites him to indulge. The 
acolytes bring in whatever paraphernalia or people (drugged to 
remember nothing) the cultist requires. Ahmose-as-Set blesses 
each cultist as he debauches himself.
When the cultist finishes, Ahmose announces the god’s 
departure and turns off his Obfuscate and Presence. Once more 
he exhorts the cultists to loyalty and secrecy. The acolytes open 
the sanctum’s doors again and the cultists file out and resume their 
street clothes. The acolytes bring out a snack of juice, coffee and 
some high-protein, high-iron food such as oatmeal-raisin cookies to 
compensate for their blood loss. The cultists leave as they came, one 
at a time, to resume their normal lives until the god calls them again.
Dramatis Personae
The four vampires (and one ghoul) of the Repairers of Reputa-
tions work together closely. This unity, indeed, accounts for much 
of their success at gathering minions and harvesting influence. 
They do have their differences, though, and their own temptations.
Ahmose is blood bound to Sahira, but he knows full well 
that he feels dependence, not love. The bond may fade with 
time and separation, but Sahira will not permit that any time 
soon. Ahmose believes, with some justice, that Sahira does not 
really appreciate either his work maintaining the Repairers’ 
business, or his progress at understanding the Path of Typhon.
Sahira views the rest of the Repairers as her tools. She 
would sacrifice Ahmose to save her own unlife, and he knows 
it. She feels some fellowship with Belle because of their shared 
suffering as prostitutes. Jim irritates her with his know-it-all 
attitude; Sahira looks forward to teaching him what the Void 
is really like. She knows about Topcat’s obsession with her and 
takes secret delight in sending him into one humiliation after 
another. When he’s no longer useful, Sahira will enjoy killing 
him (but she’ll make him bathe before she takes his blood).
Belle no longer needs the approval of the other Repairers 
to assuage his/her insecurities — or so s/he thinks. S/he brushes 
off any criticism from Jim or her sire, Ahmose. Sahira, however, 
knows Belle better than the others, and Sahira is the only one 
that Belle genuinely likes. A few venomous words from Sahira 
could smash all of Belle’s hard-won self-esteem like a crystal vase, 


Clanbook: Setite
92
and plunge hir back into self-loathing and despair. Sahira will do 
this when she decides the time is right for the next stage of Belle’s 
training in Theophidian ways.
Jim Gander wants to read The Complete and Total Guide to 
All Setite Mysteries, not realizing that such a book does not exist 
— and it wouldn’t help him if it did. Ahmose warns him that 
the true Theophidian revelations do not come in books and will 
hit him a lot harder than he thinks. Jim is not totally blinded 
by pride in his own cleverness, though. He’s figured out that the 
relationship between Ahmose and Sahira has hidden depths 
and ponders ways to gain information without their knowledge.
Poor, clueless Topcat thinks that his domitor Ahmose will 
Embrace him any night now. He works so hard to please the oth-
ers, especially Sahira. Why don’t they like him more? And he’s a 
genuine genius, much smarter than that pretentious dabbler Gander. 
Maybe if he works harder — shows himself more perfectly corrupt 
and degraded — does something so wonderfully vile that they will 
know he understands — they will finally grant him his reward.
Sahira Siraj
Background: When European businessmen come to Cairo, 
often they want to sample the East’s exotic pleasures. Sahira was 
one such pleasure. Her father ran a whorehouse and he made 
Sahira (and her sisters) part of the merchandise. Some men 
would pay extra for one so young. She did not go to school; 
instead, her mother taught Sahira how to sing and belly-dance 
and please wealthy men; how to smile and blush while her eyes 
remained dead and cold and far away.
The Setite priest, Abdelsobek, needed one such as Sahira to 
please a particular German diplomat. Sahira performed her task 
with skill. The diplomat’s wife interrupted them, as Abdelsobek 
planned. As the diplomat’s wife screamed, however, Sahira’s 
eyes came back from the cold, far-away place and she smiled a 
true smile. Abdelsobek realized that this whoremaster’s daughter 
could become much more.
Sahira became Abdelsobek’s disciple, ghoul and eventu-
ally his childe. Now she rules her own small cult, temple and 
brood. Using Ahmose, Belle and Jim as her fronts, she studies 
the Kindred of her new city, looking for ways to set them at 
each other’s throats. Sahira loves to watch smug, confident, 
powerful Kindred and kine brought to ruin. Although she may 
speak of conferring wisdom, or serving Sutekh by destroying the 
pawns of the Aeons, deep down Sahira lusts for that moment of 
satisfaction and revenge she felt in a Cairo hotel-room long ago.
Image: Sahira Siraj is an Arab nymphet, apparently just 
budding into womanhood. She has dusky skin, long, straight black 
hair and black eyes with long lashes. At the Sphinx Club, she 
wears a belly-dancer’s outfit of gauze veils and fake gold jewelry. 
During ceremonies, she either lies nude on the altar (cultists 
expect that sort of thing) or stands with Belle and Jim, clad in 
the same simple black robe. When she leaves the coterie’s block, 
she dresses in jeans and a T-shirt and looks like an ordinary 
teenage girl. She has a ghoul asp as a pet; it guards her haven.
Roleplaying Tips: Keep your eyes downcast and your mouth 
shut around Ahmose. Loosen up around Belle and Jim, but remain 
a little shy and reticent. You say that Ahmose tells you little and 
Embraced you merely so you could serve him. Play the Lolita around 
powerful men, Kindred or kine — a sweet little girl eager for a 
sugar daddy offstage, a sultry temptress when you dance. When 
you and Ahmose are alone, though, rip into him for every failure 
and drill him on what he’s supposed to say to his “clients.” Topcat 
disgusts you; send him into every humiliation you can imagine.
Sire: Abdelsobek
Nature: Monster
Demeanor: Child
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1904
Apparent Age: 14
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 4, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Empathy 3, Expression 2, 
Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Etiquette 3, Melee 2, Performance 3, 
Stealth 1
Knowledges: Linguistics 3, Medicine 2, Occult 3, Science 1, 
Setite Lore 2
Disciplines: Animalism 1, Obfuscate 3, Presence 2, Serpentis 4, 
Thaumaturgy 3
Thaumaturgic Paths: The Snake Inside 3
Backgrounds: Herd 3, Mentor 3, Resources 4, Retainers 2, 
Setite Status 2
Virtues: Conviction 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 3
Morality: Path of Typhon 6
Willpower: 6
Ahmose Chambers
Background: Before World War Two, Amos Chambers 
worked as a carpenter and thought he was an honest man. 
Oh sure, he did a little work for some crime bosses, like those 


Chapter Three: Broken Images
93
false-bottom crates for shipping heroin. What’s a black man 
to do when he can’t get the same fees as a white man? Amos 
swore to his parents that he’d help his kid brother, Franklin, 
pay for college and become a doctor — and that took money.
The war changed everyone’s plans. Franklin became a medical 
corpsman and died in the Pacific. Amos became a quartermaster 
sergeant. His unit ended up in North Africa, duking it out with 
Rommel. Soldiers like to get treats not available at the PX, and 
they like to cut loose with the local girls. Amos found a talent for 
deal-making and arranging other people’s fun.
That talent brought him to Sahira’s attention. She saw 
who would emerge as top dog after the war. The action would 
be in America. She needed a native guide. Amos seemed smart 
and just amoral enough to serve as her ghoul. Amos returned 
from a three-day pass in Cairo enslaved to the Followers of Set.
Amos used his position and connections to smuggle Sahira 
and her sire and broodmates from Egypt to a large East Coast 
city. He served her well for 12 years. That obliged her, by the 
tradition of her cult, to teach Amos to the best of her ability, 
and he learned well. When Sahira struck out to establish her 
own temple, her sire Abdelsobek suggested that she make Amos 
her first childe. To commemorate his promotion from ghoul to 
vampire, Amos “Egyptianized” his first name.
Sahira and Ahmose ran small-time operations in a series of 
cities, taking over brothels and blackmailing prominent johns 
before exposing and ruining them. In 1981, Ahmose suggested 
reversing the system. Why destroy their victims? Why not use 
them to draw in more blackmail victims, in a never-ending 
pyramid of extortion? Thus began the Repairers of Reputations.
As the front man for the Repairers, Ahmose receives clients 
and commands the brood’s agents. He also serves as cult priest and 
oversees their businesses. In addition to the Repairers’ network of 
blackmailed agents, Ahmose has contact with some of the city’s 
organized crime figures and can often hire special help from them.
Image: Although actually a light-skinned American black 
man, Ahmose Chambers can pass for a dark-skinned Arab. 
He shaves his head. As the manager of the Sphinx Club, he 
wears a white suit and a turban with a red brush, and speaks 
in an Arabic accent.
Roleplaying Tips: You live so many lies you almost 
forget who you really are. To Belle, Jim and Topcat you are 
their distant, taciturn master, with Sahira your submissive 
child-lover. In private with Sahira, the roles reverse and you 
say “As you command” a lot. To blackmailed former clients, 
you seem terrifyingly omniscient; to cultists, a living god. 
When you think of how many of the clan’s mysteries you do 
not know, however, you feel lost and powerless. Where is the 
real you? Perhaps it lies in this precept: No matter how many 
roles you play, you vow to survive. This world of horrors and 
secrets will not destroy you.
Clan: Followers of Set
Sire: Sahira Siraj
Nature: Survivor
Demeanor: Director
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1957
Apparent Age: 29
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 2, Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Talents: Brawl 1, Intimidation 3, Leadership 2, Streetwise 3, 
Subterfuge 3
Skills: Crafts (carpentry) 2, Etiquette 2, Firearms 2, Performance 1
Knowledges: Academics 1, Finance 3, Law 3, Linguistics 
(Arabic, Egyptian) 2, Occult 1, Politics 2, Setite Lore 1
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Obfuscate 3, Presence 2, Serpentis 3, 
Thaumaturgy 1
Thaumaturgic Paths: The Serpent Within 1
Backgrounds: Allies 3, Contacts 5, Influence 2, Mentor 1, 
Retainers 3, Setite Status 1
Virtues: Conviction 2, Self-Control 3, Courage 4
Morality: Path of Typhon 4
Willpower: 5
Belle Equitone
Background: His father’s boot slammed into Jonny’s ribs. 
“Dressin’ up in girl clothes! No son of mine’ll be a goddamn 
queer!” This time the boot struck him in the shoulder. The 
shadow of his father’s beer gut moved away. Jonny lay in pain.
Too soon, the heavy tread returned. Jonny looked up. 
His father now held the fireplace poker. This would not be an 
ordinary beating. Jonny lurched upright, gasping at the pain 
of his cracked ribs and bruises, and ran. His father pursued, 
but his belly slowed him. “I’ll kill you!” his father shouted 
after him. “I ever see you again, I’ll kill you!”
A teenage boy, alone — Jonny found, soon enough, that 
to make money he had to give his body to much older men. 
His pimp didn’t mind him dressing as a girl, though: Some 
customers liked that, sort of a two-in-one deal.


Clanbook: Setite
94
Eventually, Jonny died. Belle, however, survived — both 
of her. Belle One accepted that she was a whore, though she 
hated the men who used her. Belle Two dreamed of a better life 
as a singer, a life of beauty and glamour and maybe even love. 
(The other selves had no names yet. They only howled in the 
dark.) Ahmose found Belle when she applied for a job at the 
Sphinx Club. He would not have given the young woman a 
job, except Sahira’s sharper eyes saw through Belle’s disguise. 
Intrigued, she ordered Ahmose to hire the drag queen. Belle 
became an…experiment.
Sahira and Ahmose delicately probed Belle’s psyche for 
months, discovering her multiple selves, before they introduced 
her to the worship of Set and made her a ghoul. They slowly 
put her mind back together, suturing her fragmented soul with 
the blood bond and religious fervor. They found desire, rage 
and deceit. They even called Jonny out of the darkness. At 
last Sahira judged that they had done all they could, and they 
welded Belle’s souls in the cold fire of the Embrace.
Belle no longer sees herself as male or female. S/he is both, 
a Belle two-toned, confident of hir sexuality in either gender. 
S/he seduces men and women alike, as either man or woman 
hirself, counting coup with each heart captured and each mind 
blown. Hir greatest delight, however, comes when Ahmose bids 
hir seduce some confident, domineering man, to place him in a 
compromising position so that he may be blackmailed. After the 
others collect sufficient pictures, s/he reveals hir own masculine 
aspect…while grasping hir victim in a…delicate spot and pulling 
out hir straight razor. Then s/he sweetly suggests the man beg 
for his continued manhood. Most of the time, Ahmose stops 
hir before s/he uses the razor. Most of the time.
Belle also has hir own network of informants. S/he combines 
hir abilities at impersonation and conversation with a sharp mind 
for detail and a wide network of contacts in the sex industry. 
Given time, Belle can uncover amazing amounts of information.
Image: Belle Equitone is attractive as either a man or woman. 
S/he has strawberry blonde hair curling to shoulder length and 
stands at medium height for a man, somewhat tall for a woman. 
Belle has sufficient mastery of makeup, body language, couture 
and prosthetics that s/he can completely hide hir masculine 
anatomy if s/he wants. S/he dresses to suit hir purpose, anything 
from the latest men’s sportswear to a sultry torch-singer’s gown.
Roleplaying Tips: You do not exist; you live only as a series 
of masks and mirrors, showing other people what they want to 
see. Play the dutiful childe to Ahmose, the friendly sister to 
Sahira, the slightly irritated brother to Jim and treat Topcat like 
dirt. It’s what they expect. Try to impress everyone else with 
your grace and charm, and win their hearts. True joy, however, 
comes when you reveal your multiplicity to a victim and he 
freaks out. Even their rage satisfies you; it proves your mastery.
Clan: Followers of Set
Sire: Ahmose Chambers
Nature: Chameleon
Demeanor: Gallant
Generation: 12th
Embrace: 1989
Apparent Age: 24
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Intimidation 3, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge (gender 
confusion) 4
Skills: Etiquette 2, Melee 2, Performance 2
Knowledges: Investigation (gossip) 4, Disguise 3, Vamp 3
Disciplines: Presence 1, Serpentis 2
Backgrounds: Contacts 4, Fame 1
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 6
Jim Gander
Background: Jim Gander grew up too smart for his own 
good. His parents worked hard to pay for private Catholic 
school; his mother dreamed of him becoming the first Ameri-
can Pope. After school, Jim dodged the local bullies to visit 
the library, where he found whole worlds of unsuitable mate-
rial — everything from atheist philosophy to Lord of the Rings.
After high school, Jim ran off to become an actor and hap-
pily immersed himself in disreputable company. After a few years 
on the stage, however, Jim decided that eating regularly had its 
attractions too. Chastened, he made peace with his parents long 
enough for them to help pay for a degree as a pharmacist. (Why 
not? Jim had dosed himself recreationally with strange chemicals 
enough times.) Along the way, Jim met a wide range of occultists 
and would-be magicians, and had immense fun playing along with 
them until he could play their “games” better than they could.
Ahmose found Jim working the night shift at a hospital 
pharmacy. He matter-of-factly blood bound Jim to gain access to 
the controlled substances he kept. To his surprise, Jim not only 
figured out the whole “vampire” thing before Ahmose told him, 
the pharmacist deluged him with disturbingly intelligent questions.


Chapter Three: Broken Images
95
Jim quickly graduated from minion to cultist. When 
Ahmose outlined the doctrines for novices, Jim extrapolated 
the advanced doctrines from his occult knowledge. Sahira and 
Ahmose tempted Jim to break down his inhibitions, and found 
that he didn’t have any. Drugs, crime, perversion, cool! The 
one thing they couldn’t break was Jim’s intellectual pride — but 
he impressed the cult enough that Sahira finally agreed to his 
Embrace and Ahmose did the deed.
Jim still works the night shift at the hospital. Hunting is easy: 
he can diddle the inventory for the whole blood stores as well as 
the hospital’s supply of drugs and medicines. Ahmose finds Jim 
more useful than he expected due to his expert knowledge of 
pharmaceuticals — including chemical interrogation. Jim learns 
about his new supernatural “family” as quickly as he can, and 
pesters Ahmose for lessons in sorcery. It’s only a matter of time…
and if no one will teach Jim, he will try to figure it out himself!
Image: Jim is tall, thick and broad; not deliberately athletic, 
but massive. He has curly black hair, graying at the temples, a 
fringe of grizzled black beard, glasses, a broad grin and a manic 
gleam in his eye. His garb varies widely, from a businesslike white 
lab coat to T-shirts with “Tibetan Corpse Wrestling Olympic 
Team” or other bizarre slogans and images.
Roleplaying Hints: Jim has a superficially normal, well-
paying job and a strange, fantastical inner life. The Setite cult 
didn’t have to shatter his old habits of belief. He had no con-
ventional morals to begin with, only a rational distaste for losing 
his freedom, whether to a jail sentence or to an addiction. Jim 
assiduously studies the Path of Typhon, although he hasn’t been 
a vampire long enough to imbibe its tenets fully.
Boisterous humor masks Jim’s contempt for the lesser minds 
around him. Jim believes he can out-think the world and finesse 
any rules; nothing frightens him more than losing control and 
not knowing what to do. His hunger for knowledge, for the rules 
of this strange, secret World of Darkness, equals his hunger for 
blood. He serves Ahmose any way he can, in hopes of gaining 
more secrets and more power.
Sire: Ahmose Chambers
Nature: Autocrat
Demeanor: Judge
Generation: 12th
Embrace: 1995
Apparent Age: 33
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 4, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 2, Expression 2, Intimidation 3, Streetwise 2
Skills: Drive 1, Firearms 1, Performance 3
Knowledges: Academics 3, Computer 1, Linguistics 2, Medi-
cine 2, Occult 3, Science 2
Other Traits: Toxicology 3, Setite Lore 1
Disciplines: Presence 1, Serpentis 2
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Herd 3, Mentor 2, Resources 2, Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 3, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 7
Topcat
Background: Topcat (a nickname and Internet handle 
derived from his initials, T. C.) graduated high school at 12; 
earned a Master’s degree in computer science at 16; and had a 
nervous breakdown at 17. When Ahmose found him, Topcat 
worked the graveyard shift at a convenience store. He spent 
all his money on computer hardware, computer games and 
violently pornographic Japanese animation.
Ahmose first thought to add Topcat’s technical skills to 
the Repairers of Reputations. In his trial period as a ghoul, 
however, Sahira quickly decided that Topcat lacked the spiri-
tual potential to become a true Follower of Set — not without 
a lot more training, in hygiene as well as self-knowledge and 
doctrine. An obsession with adolescent girls in spike heels is 
one thing, but the fastidious Sahira finds Topcat repugnant. 
Even the blood bond cannot cure his slovenly habits.
Topcat wants the Embrace, but Ahmose tells him that he’s 
too useful as a ghoul. After all, the Repairers need someone who 
can move about in daylight. Topcat hacks into databases, plants 
bugs, and hotwires electronic security systems. The slacker finds 
himself working very hard at the vampires’ command, doing 
in real life the sort of adventurous, dangerous feats he used to 
imagine in games. Breaking into buildings, impersonating a 
delivery man to plant a surveillance camera, and other illegali-
ties terrify him; but the thought of disappointing Sahira or his 
domitor, Ahmose, terrifies him even more.
Image: The tall and gangling Topcat repels most people 
who encounter him. He isn’t merely unkempt: Topcat doesn’t 
wash, use deodorant or brush his teeth very often. He usually 
wears grimy jeans and a grimier T-shirt of some band that 
was incredibly popular 5 years ago.
Roleplaying Tips: Mumble most of the time, but now 
and then blurt out something crude at high volume. (Topcat’s 
relatively high Manipulation basically takes the form of people 


Clanbook: Setite
96
doing what he asks if they think it will make him go away.) If 
one of the Repairers asks if you can hack into a system, remind 
them that you received your college scholarship from the NSA. 
Do anything, anything, that Sahira asks. Your fondest hope is that 
you may become a true Setite and master Serpentis enough to 
turn into a snake. Then you can go beyond watching the girls 
who obsess you. You could slip into their homes unseen, into 
their bedrooms, into their beds, coil around their lissome bod-
ies…your hands twitch and eyes glaze at this recurring fantasy.
Domitor: Ahmose
Nature: Child
Demeanor: Creep Show
Ghouldom: 1997
Apparent Age: 23
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 1, Manipulation 3, Appearance 1
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 4, Wits 2
Talents: Alertness 1, Dodge 2, Intimidation 1, Streetwise 2, 
Subterfuge 2
Skills: Melee 2, Security 3, Stealth 2
Knowledges: Academics 3, Computer 3, Occult 2, Sci-
ence (Electronics) 4
Disciplines: Obfuscate 1, Potence 1, Serpentis 1
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 3, Resources 1
Virtues: Compassion 2, Self-Control 2, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 3
Superior Serpents
Not every modern Follower of Set takes the clan’s faith 
seriously. Nevertheless, honor and power within the clan chiefly 
derive from religion. Pious (or ambitious) Setite neonates 
could take lessons from the careers of these successful, honored 
Serpents…and from one who, despite her age, power and 
achievements, is nevertheless considered a disgrace to the clan.
Kemintiri
As Ra crosses the sky in his sun-boat, Kemintiri dreams.
She dreams of a man: tall and strong, with sapphire-blue 
eyes burning in a darkly tanned, rawboned face. The firelight 
smolders in his red hair. He draws her into his embrace, heavy 
lips meeting hers, moving down to her throat, and Kemintiri 
stretches at the remembered pleasure in the arms of a god.
Kemintiri dreams of another man: also tall, strong and dark, 
but dressed all in gold. The sun strikes sparks of gold in his dark 
brown hair. A plate of gold set with jewels covers one of his eyes. 
She dares not look at him directly, for fear his beauty would blind 
her. “I know you are loyal,” he says, and brushes the back of her 
hand with one finger. “You will not fail me.” The king of kings, 
the first and eternal pharaoh, has touched her, has said that he 
trusts her completely, and Kemintiri sighs within her dream.
Kemintiri dreams of pain. She hangs in ropes while red-
hot irons burn her skin. “Traitor,” she hears. Who speaks? 
Sometimes she sees the red-haired man, sometimes the man in 
gold. She loved them both, served them both, betrayed them 
both — but in what order? She cannot remember. Something 
about a secret, a key to eternal life….  Both men have lived 
for thousands of years, their hatred ancient beyond memory.
The memories come faster, a torrent of images. Soldiers 
marching behind an eagle standard, lords and ladies in high-
piled periwigs, a mud hut, a dank tunnel with a crude sign of 
a fish drawn on a wall. She is man and woman, a thousand 
faces. Which one is really hers? She must try them all, wear 
every face, and perhaps she will find her own again.
Kemintiri wakes. She leaves a faint smear of red as she slides 
from the sheets. A hot shower cleans the blood-sweat from her 
skin before she dresses: panty hose, sensible shoes, white blouse, a 
knee-length skirt and jacket of gray wool. The face that looks out 
of the mirror has straight brown hair gathered in a bun — a plain, 
no-nonsense face. She forgets Kemintiri. She is Carla Rasmussen, 
secretary and childe to Boltazsar Lajos, prince of Cleveland. As 
she reaches for a golden pin, its glitter makes her think of a golden 
eye patch. In sudden fury and fear, she hurls the pin away. No, she 
must not think of such things. They are only dreams!
When Carla catches her cab a half-hour later, she thinks 
only of the night’s busy schedule.
	
	
*	
*	
*	
Kemintiri: Number One on the Camarilla’s list of wanted crimi-
nals. She murdered the Ventrue Justicar Michaelis and impersonated 
him for more than a year. No one dares guess the number of Kindred 
she has slain over her millennia of unlife. By piecing together state-
ments she makes to other vampires or mortals, the Justicars believe 
that Kemintiri holds a dreadful ambition: she hopes to exchange 
undeath for a different sort of immortality, the endless resurrection 
cycle of the half-mythical mummies. More than that, she hopes to 
create a veritable army of undying soldiers and lead them in a war 
of extermination against all vampires — especially her own sire, the 
Antediluvian Set himself. The Justicars would dearly love to disen-
tangle Kemintiri’s history in hopes of finding clues to her next move. 


Chapter Three: Broken Images
97
Unfortunately, Kemintiri is perhaps the greatest mistress of disguise in 
the World of Darkness, employing sorcery, Disciplines and mundane 
skills alike to change her appearance. She can look like absolutely 
anyone, of either gender. The Camarilla’s Justicars, Archons and 
Alastors never seem to discover her impostures until she has already 
moved on. None of them doubt that Kemintiri plays a chess game of 
impossible subtlety, with the Kindred’s destruction as the final move.
They’re completely wrong, of course.
Kemintiri became a vampire some time during Egypt’s 19th 
dynasty. As a mortal, she became a pawn in the endless struggle 
between Set and Horus. Certainly she loved them both, betrayed 
them both and was punished by both — but she cannot remember 
the sequence of events. Did she start by serving Set and attempt 
to infiltrate the cult of Horus, or the other way around? Did she 
change her loyalties, or not? Which one captured and tortured 
her? Certainly, Set himself made her a vampire. Kemintiri now 
believes he meant to punish her — but is that really true?
Between them, the two warring gods broke Kemintiri’s 
mind. Nothing of herself remained… so she tried to be someone 
else. Over the millennia, she usurped hundreds of identities, 
killing each victim so that she or he could not expose her. As 
each identity inevitably broke, a new set of fractured memories 
joined the chaos in her mind. Thanks to dozens of unwitting 
mentors, Kemintiri became one of the most powerful vampires 
in the world, knowing many unusual Disciplines and sorcerous 
rituals. Under stress, however, she can forget who she is (or 
pretends she is), and lash out in deadly panic.
In her “true” form (if such a term means anything for her), 
Kemintiri stands about 4’6” tall, with dusky skin and long, 
straight black hair. Sometimes she slips in a role and dresses 
in archaic garb, picking a style at random from history; for 
instance, topping a business ensemble with a colonial mobcap 
or an Arab veil. On top of her other powers, Kemintiri is quite 
possibly the most beautiful woman in the world: Men (and 
some women) drop to their knees with instant love and beg to 
serve her, if only she will favor them with a smile. The chaos 
in her mind usually spits up something they can do for her.
Unfortunately, when the Tremere exposed Kemintiri’s 
imposture of the Ventrue Justicar, they unwittingly created a 
new identity for her. When someone penetrates her disguise, 
Kemintiri now has another identity to fill the void within 
her: the arch-Anathema, the invincible and incalculable 
master villain who seeks the Kindred’s doom. The role itself 
doesn’t matter. Kemintiri is just as happy being a Caitiff 
pickpocket as a prince or archbishop. She will play any role, 
if only someone will tell her who she is.
The Setite clan leaders hold divided opinions about 
Kemintiri. On the one hand, she is Set’s own childe (possibly 
the only one not currently in torpor) and an Eternal of Sothis 
twice over. For this she is, automatically, a demigod. Her 
impersonation of Michaelis also threw the Camarilla into a 
historic tizzy: Public Enemy Number One is an honorable role 
for a Setite, and many younger clan members consider her a 
hero. On the other hand, Kemintiri’s religious achievements 
are limited to impersonating a priest in the 17th century. She 
has never cooperated with any other Setites, except when 
she murdered and replaced some other Serpent.
Overall, most Setite elders wish that Kemintiri would go 
away. The Camarilla’s unwitting creation of her “Arch-Anath-
ema” identity made her much more dangerous to other Setites. 
In that identity, she believes she wants to destroy her own clan 
most of all, as an offering of contrition to Horus. A few Hiero-
phants order young acolytes to monitor the Camarilla’s hunt 
for Kemintiri. These agents covertly assist the Alastors when 
they can, but are ordered not to make themselves known. These 
Hierophants would like Kemintiri captured, if possible. If they 
could restore her sanity, or at least make her controllably insane, 
she would become a powerful asset to their cult. If her mind can’t 
be stabilized, well, there’s always diablerie. Should the Camarilla 
destroy her, however, none of the elders will feel any grief.
Reverend Djoser Jones
Quote: I hear you SAY the WORDS, but do you MEAN 
them in your HEART? Do you feel the SPIRIT of the Dark God 
MOVing withIN you?
Prelude: From boyhood, Joseph Jones loved religion. He 
loved the hymns, the clapping, the confessions and the repen-
tance. He made up sins just so he could confess and renounce 
them at the tent revival. When he grew up, he became a Baptist 
minister with his own small church.
Jones strove to set a good example for his congregation and 
warn them when they strayed from the path to glory. Yet flesh and 
spirit both are weak; inevitably Jones himself strayed — thinking 
lustful, angry or covetous thoughts, or drinking more than one glass 
of wine to calm his nerves of an evening. He prayed to Jesus for 
forgiveness, though, and felt the Holy Spirit moving within him, 
granting him absolution. As long as he kept Jesus in his heart, he 
remained one of the blessed. He no longer confessed his sins, though.
Jones’ certainty of forgiveness allowed his sins to grow year 
by year. When his sire found him, Reverend Jones had a taste for 


Clanbook: Setite
98
bootleg whiskey, two mistresses and a bank account full of money 
tithed to the church. His hypocrisy charmed Sisocharis. Within 
six months, he taught the Reverend several new debaucheries 
and convinced him that forgiveness came from Set, not Jesus.
The fallen preacher served his sire as a ghoul for ten years 
before receiving the Embrace. While Prohibition lasted, Jones’ 
church kept barrels of Canadian booze and the hastily-buried 
cadavers of three G-men in its basement. Many in Jones’ town 
heard the Gospel of Set disguised as the Gospel of Jesus. After 
Prohibition, Jones and Sisocharis found new opportunities in 
prostitution. That required a much larger basement, but Jones 
convinced the townspeople to build him a bigger church. The 
mayor and sheriff both endorsed the idea…. When the FBI nosed 
around again, in search of a teenage girl abducted across state 
lines, Sisocharis and Jones reluctantly moved their operation 
to a big city and burned the church down behind them, with a 
body to stand in for Jones. Sisocharis took this as a sign that his 
acolyte was ready to transcend mortality and Embraced him.
After another ten years, Jones felt himself ready to 
graduate from Sisocharis’ tutelage. Set called him to some 
greater purpose than vice-mongering. As a token of his ended 
childehood, Jones Egyptianized his first name, and Djoser 
Jones set forth to help his fellow Setites retain their holy zeal.
Djoser Jones is an old-time revival preacher, Setite-style. He 
drives his van from city to city, visiting Setite cults and coteries, 
conducting high-energy religious services the likes of which his 
clanmates have never seen before. Jones rewrites classic revival 
hymns to give them Setite lyrics; he and his two human ghouls 
accompany the songs with a drum and piano, while the con-
gregants pass Jones’ ghoul rattlesnake from hand to hand. Jones 
supports his “crusade” through free-will offerings and murdering 
and robbing the occasional well-heeled pimp or drug dealer.
Most Theophidians find Jones’ comprehension of their theol-
ogy…dubious. He gives Theophidian doctrine his own odd spin, 
that Set wants people to sin so he can forgive them. No one denies 
that Jones knows how to play a congregation, though. Mortal and 
undead Followers all feel more enthusiasm for their faith after a 
visit from Reverend Djoser Jones. He has led many slacker Setites 
back to the Dark Lord’s service. Nothing makes him happier than 
knowing he has led another soul back to Sutekh’s grace.
Image: Dark brown hair swept back in a pompadour, a 
tailored black suit with golden cufflinks, a diamond ring and a 
golden cross tie-tack make Djoser Jones look like a televangelist. 
During a revival meeting he trades the cross for a pin in the form 
of a dragon biting its tail. Jones remains moderately handsome 
despite a slight puffiness in the face from debaucheries in his 
mortal days, but the energy in his speech and movement makes 
him stand out, not his looks. Jones is a compact man — not 
short exactly, just not the tallest guy in the room.
Roleplaying Tips: Djoser Jones stays in constant motion: 
pacing, gesturing, clasping shoulders, directing imaginary 
choirs while humming hymns. Decades of high-octane ser-
monizing leave a permanent cadence in his voice. Although 
Jones carries a pistol, he prefers to hide or run away at any sign 
of danger. If he can’t avoid a peril, however, his faith revives 
his courage — and he tries to convert his enemy, praising 
Set and pronouncing himself unafraid to join his god. Most 
vampires find this sufficiently creepy that they will back off.
Note that although Jones believes he follows the Path of Ty-
phon, he actually remains tied to Humanity. His high Conscience 
derives from his faith in Set’s mercy and forgiveness of his crimes.
Clan: Followers of Set
Sire: Sisocharis
Nature: Caregiver
Demeanor: Celebrant
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1934
Apparent Age: 38
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Dodge 2, Empathy 3, Expression 4, Intimidation 1, 
Leadership 2, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Etiquette 3, Firearms 1, Performance 4, Survival 1
Knowledges: Academics 2, Linguistics 1, Occult 2, Setite Lore 1
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Obfuscate 2, Presence 3, Serpentis 4
Backgrounds: Contacts 4, Retainers 3, Setite Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 2
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 5
Hesha Ruhadze
Quote: Be reasonable, Mr. Bell. I have information that you 
need. If you cannot make a simple deal without consulting your 
master, however, I will wait. Do not make me wait too long…boy.
Background: The night had much in store for Ruhadze, 
who would change his name to Hesha after his Embrace in 
the midnight shadows of a Nubian gold mine.
The harsh Nubian climate and Ruhadze’s poverty tempered 
him at a very young age. To avoid conflict, he and his family adopted 


Chapter Three: Broken Images
99
whatever religion had grown to prominence at any given time: 
Islam, Christianity and even Animism at certain points. By the 
time he had reached a relatively advanced age for Nubians — his 
30s — Hesha had fallen in with a cult that had gained no small 
bit of notoriety. This was a blood cult, a herd of mortals tricked 
into believing in the divinity of their Kindred patron. The cult’s 
Setite leader Embraced Hesha, seeing in the man a cleverness 
and intellect that he thought would serve him well in his quest 
to reincarnate his dead god. Indeed, Hesha’s sire grew so proud 
of his progeny in the modern nights that he renamed himself 
Abu Ruhadze in the Islamic tradition: “the father of Ruhadze.”
After his Embrace, Hesha acclimated quite well to the 
“Cainite” condition. His newfound toughness was a great boon 
during the long nights he spent uncovering the hidden lore of 
Kindred and other chthonic creatures. Mentored at first by his 
sire, Hesha felt the calling of his clan’s legacy. Abu Ruhadze 
knew he had chosen wisely, and instructed his childe in the ways 
of the Path of Typhon. His progeny proved once again to be a 
fervent pupil. To this night, Hesha’s clanmates consider him a 
near paragon of the Theophidians, revered for his devotion to 
the god of the Underworld and his spiritual wisdom.
Hesha’s undead travels took him everywhere, and he met a 
great many prominent Kindred. He has crossed paths with the 
Kindred archaeologist Beckett no few times, and the two consider 
themselves cordial rivals. Additionally, his zeal to uncover the 
next secret or hidden revelation earns him great status among 
members of his clan; he’s glad to dive into forgotten tombs as 
long as he believes they offer something of worth.
In the modern nights, Hesha continues his tireless quest for 
knowledge. He has established numerous havens and at least one 
secondary identity to help him in the trade of cryptic lore. Those 
who know him also know that he’s willing to share almost any secret 
he unearths — for the right price. Sometimes, Hesha warns, the 
price of knowledge is the knowing: The World of Darkness contains 
entities and forces far more malign than mere vampires — dread 
creatures more powerful than the human mind can comprehend. 
The Antediluvians think to assume such power, but the Eldest 
Ones were ancient when the antediluvians were new. Very few 
vampires of other clans know Hesha’s labors to protect the Earth 
from the Eldest Powers. No one destroys the world until the Setites 
are ready for their own ascension to godhood.
Image: A dapper Serpent, Hesha now shows no trace of his 
village past. In fact, he shows nothing that he does not want the 
other person to see. Hesha combines the bearing of a runway 
model with the flawless calm-under-fire of a combat veteran. 
His dark-amber gaze is almost enough to entrance an onlooker 
without even calling upon his Disciplines. Hesha carries himself 
with grace and dignity, equally at home at an embassy ball or the 
catacombs of a ruined temple. He customarily wears perfectly-
tailored gray business suits, and a monocle despite the fact that 
he has perfect vision. Hesha’s shaved scalp bears a tattoo of 
twining serpents, but in public he hides this through Obfuscate.
Roleplaying Hints: No problem is so great that it cannot 
be overcome by reason. You remain cool and sensible even 
under the direst of circumstances, whether facing down 
rampaging Sabbat, jumping a chasm or opening the tombs 
of the forgotten kings. Most people and Kindred are but tools 
to you, and they serve best when willing, so you indebt them 
to you whenever you can. Even those who aren’t your tools 
have something to offer; acquaintances, old allies and new 
faces alike all have as-yet-unrealized potential.
Most of the time you affect a courtly, formal charm that 
makes people think they know you far better than they do. 
Now and then you astound people with your encyclopedic 
knowledge of history, archeology, mythology and art, but you 
don’t deliberately show off — not unless you see a good reason 
for it. You never tell the whole truth: Considering what you 
know, that is probably a kindness.
Clan: Followers of Set
Sire: Abu Ruhadze
Nature: Visionary
Demeanor: Conniver
Generation: 8th
Embrace: Unknown; assumed late 17th century
Apparent Age: mid- to late-thirties
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 5, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 5, Wits 5
Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 3, Brawl 3, Dodge 4, Empathy 3, 
Grace 3, Intimidation 3, Intuition 3, Leadership 4, Streetwise 4, 
Style 3, Subterfuge 5
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Crafts (appraisal) 4, Demolitions 3, 
Drive 1, Etiquette 4, Firearms 2, Melee 1, Performance 4, 
Ride 1, Security 3, Sleight of Hand 2, Stealth 4, Survival 2
Knowledges: Academics (humanities) 5, Computer 1, Enigmas 
4, Finance 4, Investigation (archaeology) 4, Law 1, Linguistics 
(numerous tongues and written languages, both living and dead) 
5, Medicine 2, Occult 4, Politics 4, Science 1, Setite Lore 4
Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 1, Fortitude 1, Obfuscate 3, 
Potence 1, Presence 3, Serpentis 5


Clanbook: Setite
100
Backgrounds: Alternate Identity 1, Fame 1, Herd special 
(Hesha owns a blood bank), Influence 3, Resources 5, Re-
tainers 5, Setite Status 3
Virtues: Conviction 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 5
Morality: Path of Typhon 8
Willpower: 6
Merits and Flaws: Natural Linguist
Sundervere, the Devil Brahmin
Quote: Make peace with your gods and say your farewells. The 
diamond shall drown in blood, and the rest of the world soon after.
Background: The Indian mastermind, Sundervere, remains 
a mystery to the Followers of Set despite being one of their Daitya 
kin. Few Western Setites have ever spoken with the enigmatic 
elder; he prefers to work only with other Daitya, or with mortal 
Indians and various strange and secret cults scattered around 
the world. Clan rumor holds that he and the similarly mysteri-
ous Qufur am-Heru, self-proclaimed Set’s Champion, have an 
understanding and work together on occasion.
Sundervere first came to the attention of Western 
vampires in the Victorian period, when he launched several 
campaigns to destroy the Western vampires residing in Indian 
cities. Growing more daring, he took the battle for the Indian 
night to the very heart of the British Empire, where he nearly 
murdered London’s Prince Mithras and briefly subverted the 
Foreign Office. Sundervere proved himself a master of impos-
sible escapes, returning from seemingly certain Final Death no 
less than three times before he dropped out of sight in 1922.
Now the Devil Brahmin rises again and his shadow stretches 
around the world. The time has come to initiate the Great Destruc-
tion. Sundervere reads of ill-guarded nuclear arsenals in Russia, 
and smiles. He thinks of deadly bacilli in genetics labs, and laughs. 
To Sundervere, however, these technological terrors merely serve 
as preparations and distractions. All the murderous ingenuity of 
Man shall pale when the ancient sorcery of India throws wide the 
Gate and Lord Shiva opens his third eye to annihilate the world.
Image: At first glance, Sundervere is just a small, skinny 
man in late middle age, with a shaved head, a V-mark on his 
forehead and a white robe. Then you see his eyes — black, mag-
netic, burning with fanatical will. The void stares back at you.
Roleplaying Tips: Characters of other clans find Sun-
dervere an epic adversary. The Devil Brahmin does not deign 
to swat down coteries of mere neonates; characters only meet 
Sundervere when they earn his respect enough for him to 
warn them away, and when he has total control of the meet-
ing. Sundervere loves to drop cryptic hints about his plans, 
interspersed with prophecies of doom and rants about the 
terrible forces that operate behind the mask of reality. No 
one ever catches Sundervere lying about any worldly matter, 
which makes his enemies worry that he tells the truth about 
spiritual, less verifiable, matters as well.
More often, characters encounter the cultists, vampires 
and spirits that Sundervere recruits as his agents. Sundervere 
not only commands the allegiance of several doomsday cults, 
he may create new ones to order. No more than three of his 
elite retainers appear in a single story; these may be other 
vampires, ghouled mortals or animals, spirits, or whatever else 
appeals to the Storyteller’s demented imagination.
Sundervere accepts defeats gracefully. He doesn’t believe 
in revenge. After all, his eventual victory will destroy his 
enemies along with the world, while he enjoys eternal power 
and glory as one of the gods.
Clan: Followers of Set (Daitya)
Sire: Porphyrion
Nature: Fanatic
Demeanor: Architect
Generation: 6th
Embrace: 1227
Apparent Age: Late 50s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5
Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 5, Appearance 1
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 6, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 4, Dodge 3, Empathy 2, Intimidation 3, 
Leadership (cults) 5, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Animal Ken 1, Crafts 2, Meditation 4, Performance 2, 
Security 2, Sleight of Hand 3, Stealth 3, Survival 2
Knowledges: Academics (legends) 5, Hindu Lore (apoca-
lyptic) 5, Investigation 3, Kindred Lore 3, Linguistics 4, 
Medicine 2, Occult (eldritch horrors) 6, Politics 1, Science 3
Disciplines: Auspex 5, Chimerstry 2, Dominate 3, Fortitude 
3, Obfuscate 4, Presence 5, Serpentis 6, Thaumaturgy 7
Thaumaturgical Paths: Karma 5, Conjuring 5, Spirit Manipulation 
5, Countermagic 3, Movement of the Mind 3, Weather Control 3
Backgrounds: Allies 6, Contacts 6, Herd 3, Influence 4, 
Resources 5, Retainers 3, Setite Status 5
Virtues: Conviction 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 3
Morality: Path of Typhon 8
Willpower: 9


™
Severe light allergy
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-58846-204-8
WW2360  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
TM
Children of the 
God of Storms
The Followers of Set are a clan bound together not only by blood, but 
by ties of faith. Their priests have access to secrets that would break
the minds of lesser vampires; even the youngest Setite childe has passed 
through the Gates of Revelation. They claim descent from a god, and 
prophesy the time of his return — and who is to prove them wrong? 
Clanbook: Followers 
of Set includes: 
• An in-depth look at the Clan of the Serpent: their rituals, dogma 
and ambitions 
• Treatments of alternate Setite faiths, including the voudoun 
Children of Damballah and the bloodthirsty Tlacique
• Expanded Serpentis powers, clan lore, a new Path of 
Enlightenment and more
Children of the 
God of Storms
The Followers of Set are a clan bound together not only by blood, but 
by ties of faith. Their priests have access to secrets that would break
the minds of lesser vampires; even the youngest Setite childe has passed 
through the Gates of Revelation. They claim descent from a god, and 
prophesy the time of his return — and who is to prove them wrong? 
Clanbook: Followers 
of Set includes: 
• An in-depth look at the Clan of the Serpent: their rituals, dogma 
and ambitions 
• Treatments of alternate Setite faiths, including the voudoun 
Children of Damballah and the bloodthirsty Tlacique
• Expanded Serpentis powers, clan lore, a new Path of 
Enlightenment and more
