TM
k


Contents
1
By Greg Stolze with John Chambers
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Giovanni
2
Credits
Written by: Greg Stolze with John Chambers
Additional Material: Justin Achilli
Developed by: Justin Achilli
Editor: Ed Hall
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Pauline Benney
Interior Art: Michael Gaydos, Leif Jones, Vincent Locke, 
Matt Mitchel and Christopher Shy
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Pauline Benney
© 2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher 
is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced 
for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the 
Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, 
World of Darkness, Hunter the Reckoning  and Aberrant 
are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the 
Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild 
West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, 
Trinity, Clanbook Giovanni, and Dark Ages Companion 
are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights 
reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are 
copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or prod-
uct in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or 
copyright concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters 
and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are 
fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. This 
book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Contents
Introduction: Kissing Cousins	
	
	
	
	
	
 4
Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit		
	
	
	
	
 12
Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family	
	
	
	
 
34
Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses	   80
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 
™


Clanbook: Giovanni
4


Kissing Cousins
5
Boston, April 4th
It was late afternoon when Kay Polerno arrived at the Boston mansion of her mother’s family. She was nervous. 
She had met her maternal cousins before, but not often and never in a large group like tonight’s.
She lifted a fingernail to her mouth and then lowered it. They had all been filed, manicured, sculpted 
and lacquered expertly — not by some beauty salon worker but by her great aunt Isabel. (At least, “great 
aunt” was what Kay called her. She assumed Isabel had, like her mother, been born with the Milliner name 
and taken her husband’s name.) Isabel was different from the rest of Kay’s family: She was exotic and 
graceful and had a glamorous aloofness that Kay associated with the East Coast, and with Europe, and 
with other places far from her home in Georgia. It was impossible to imagine Isabel blushing, or ending 
up picked last for volleyball, or going to the bathroom. She had the unchanging perfection of a statue, 
and Kay was eager to see her again. 
Kay also wanted to see her cousin Stewart Milliner, but she wouldn’t tell anyone about that.
Isabel had said she would meet Kay at the party. That made Kay less nervous. Also, Isabel had brought her a 
beautiful red velvet dress for her birthday, but wearing the dress made Kay both more and less nervous at the same 
time. Isabel had given her another gift, which was in her stylish matching clutch purse.
“Do you think I’ll need this?” Kay had asked.
“You never know,” Isabel had said, with the secret smile of a worldly woman.
“But at the party? I thought it was just family.…”
“Even with family, you never know.”
Like the dress, the other gift made her both more and less nervous. 
The car turned a corner, revealing the Milliner mansion. Everything that comforted her evaporated, and 
everything that scared her doubled.
She had seen pictures of her mother’s childhood home before, of course, but they couldn’t do it justice. The pictures 
didn’t convey the barren smell of the land or the way it looked so much like a tombstone with the name worn off. 
Stepping out of the car, she glanced toward one end of the house. Had she seen…? Maybe it was just the wind 
blowing leaves, playing on her nerves to look like flowing white cloth. 
Kay had her hand raised to knock on the door when it opened, revealing her cousin — not cousin Stewart, though. 
Whereas Stewart was tall and healthy, the figure before her was short and pale with a bent and cringing posture. 
“Cousin Kay!” He grinned and actually clapped his hands. He wore a tuxedo that hung awkwardly on him. 
He’d already managed to lose a cufflink. 
“Hello, uh….” She struggled to remember his name. “Primo! Cousin Primo. It’s, uh, good to see you.”
Primo Giovanni smiled, showing even teeth that were the only perfect thing about him. 
“Ah, Cousin Kay! I hoped you’d be invited this year. Come in!”
“This year…?” He ignored her question, grabbed her wrist and pulled her into the house. Looking around, Kay 
could see people of all ages, formally dressed, mingling, drinking. She saw a few blond heads, but not Stewart’s, 
and she didn’t see Isabel anywhere.
Introduction: 
Kissing Cousins


Clanbook: Giovanni
6
“Here, come with me Kay.” Primo had not released her wrist, and he was pulling her insistently away from the 
party, toward the west wing of the house.
“I’d really….”
“No, I have something to show you! But you have to hurry!”
She’d seen Primo a few times when they were both children. He’d been ugly, whiny and tantrum-prone then, 
too. But he was one of the Giovanni, and Kay suspected they were the ones with the money, because even her proud 
mother deferred to them. Unsure what else to do, Kay went along with Primo, even though something about him, 
or the night, or the twisting corridors of the house made her skin tighten with fear. 
Primo pulled her through a small side doorway and into a garden of thin, spindly plants.
“Primo, I’m not going another step until you tell me what you’re going to show me.”
“I just wanted to show you the sunset. From the top of the hill? I very much want to watch it go down all the 
way. Please come with me? It’ll be perfect!”
Kay felt that cold sickness in her chest that came from watching someone humiliate himself and not realize it. 
He sounded so uncertain and needy that she acquiesced. 
At the top of the hill was a cold stone bench under a desiccated tree with only one stout branch that stuck out 
like the arm of a gallows. Primo sat on the bench and stared, rapt, at the setting sun. 
Kay joined him and, after a moment, frowned. Why had he been so insistent that she come with him if he was 
only going to ignore her? Wide-eyed, he gazed west, like a child watching TV. Her glance followed his for a mo-
ment, but even the sunset was ugly: Through the thick gray clouds, the red and purple orb looked tired and bruised. 
Kay turned quickly. Had she heard laughter? But there was no one around.
“Primo? Is this what you…?”
“Shh! Not yet. It’s not all the way down.”


Kissing Cousins
7
“So what? I mean, it’s just a sunset. I think they have another one scheduled for tomorrow night, y’know?”
“This could be my last sunset ever,” he replied, still not looking at her.
She sighed, and crossed her legs and arms, but she stayed until it was dark. Primo turned to face her. 
“Can we go back now?”
“What’s your hurry?” He put one hand on her knee and the other behind her neck. She pulled away, but not 
quick enough to avoid feeling his rough lips on hers. She turned her head and tried to pull back, but Primo was 
stronger than he looked. Despite her struggles, she could not get free.
“Primo! Quit it!”
“No, don’t you see? This will be perfect.”
“Don’t!”
“No, look, this way our son will be a Giovanni,” he said, as if it was the most reasonable thing in the world. 
Kay screamed. Primo flinched but didn’t let go.
“Our son will be single blooded,” he said, shifting his grip. “Kay, I don’t want to die a virgin!”
Their struggles tumbled them off the stone bench, and Kay landed atop her cousin. She felt him trying to roll 
her onto her back, so she braced her leg against the bench to stop him while her hands struggled with her purse. 
Both their hands were tugging at red velvet as Kay finally got her bag open. 
She wondered if this was why Isabel had given her a 50,000 volt stun gun. She jammed it hard into Primo’s 
scrawny arm. 
The effect was immediate. He began thrashing and shuddering. Kay pulled away and sprawled on the ground 
for a moment, breathing heavily. Primo was blubbering, curled up in the fetal position.
“It’s not fair…” he moaned. Kay pushed herself unsteadily to her knees, crawled forward and jammed the 
electrodes into his thigh.
“Bastard!” she shouted. He screamed too. She stumbled to her feet, then sat on the stone bench. She burst into 
tears. She regained some of her composure only when she realized that Primo was starting to uncurl.
“Asshole!” Her throat was raw and sore. He was making soft keening sounds as he scrambled away from her 
on all fours, but she easily caught up with him and kicked him in the side of the head as hard as she could. She 
kicked and kicked until he stopped moving.
	
	
æ	
	
	
æ	
	
	
æ	
	
æ
Although Kay did not know it, her fate — along with that of Primo and of Stewart — was being discussed back 
at the house at that very moment.
“I think Primo is ready for the change,” Accorri Giovanni said. He tried hard to keep his voice neutral. “He 
is single-blooded, he has flourished under the Proxy Kiss, and even now he is developing necromantic skill. You 
know how rare that is before the Embrace….”
Diego Giovanni shrugged, but it was only superficially a human gesture. His shoulders rose and fell, but with 
the smooth movement of a machine, not an animal. He moved like an object, not a person.
Judged by appearance, Diego Giovanni would seem the youngest person in the room. But someone who looked 
deeper, who gauged by the postures and attitudes of the people around him — Accorri’s slight, defensive defiance, 
the formal attention of their host Eric Milliner, even the intent regard of Kay’s “Great Aunt” Isabel — would 
instantly realize that he was the one making the decisions. 
Diego Giovanni looked as if he were in his late twenties. He had been dead for over six centuries. 
“Accorri, your loyalty to your descendant does you credit,” he said. “I would hate to think your loyalty to the 
family as a whole is less intense.”
Accorri stiffened. “What are you saying? You think I’m disloyal? Is that it? You want me to walk on 
fire for you?”


Clanbook: Giovanni
8
“That shouldn’t be necessary. I’m simply concerned that your fondness for Primo might lead to regret-
table haste in this important matter. Primo would be one of the youngest Embraces in the history of our 
clan. If he is as brilliant and valuable as you say, should we not wait a few years and allow him to pass on 
his qualities the mortal way?”
“Primo… is most eager to change. He knows his studies are limited while he is mortal. Now, in this crisis, can 
you afford to ignore a necromantic prodigy?”
“Well, I trust your judgment,” Diego said, sounding suddenly bored. “If you feel he is so very worthy, I shall 
allow my great grandchilde Gianmaria to Embrace him. She has been most ardent in her desire for the consola-
tions of childer.”
Accorri blinked. “Gianmaria? I thought I might give him the honor myself.”
“Oh, that wouldn’t do. Already, he has taken your blood as a ghoul, yes? Giving him the Embrace would bring 
him into a closer bond, and that sort of thing is usually reserved only for loose cannons. He does not require such 
controls, does he?”
“No, but….”
“If you feel like waiting, on the other hand, I might do the deed myself.”
Accorri’s face lit up with a greed he quickly concealed. “Oh, you honor us too much. What sort of wait are 
you thinking…?”
“He’s already had the Proxy Kiss, so there’s no hurry. Once I am satisfied that he is as precocious as you 
think, I suppose.”
“I, uh… I suppose I’ll have to think this over.” Accorri covered his confusion with a sip from his heavy snifter. 
Eric, seeing his companion’s confusion, smoothly entered the conversation in Accorri’s place. 
“And have you met Stewart?”
Diego’s face was flat as he said, “Ah. Stewart.” His tone immediately alerted Eric that something was wrong.
“Do you think Stewart is worthy of the change, Eric?” Eric glanced at Isabel, but her face betrayed nothing.
“Stewart would be a tremendous asset,” Accorri said. “If you think we should wait on Primo, you could do 
no better than to Embrace Stewart.”
“Really? I take it you’re unaware, then, that he’s been bound?”
“What?” Eric leaped to his feet before he could stop himself, but Diego was standing before the taller blond 
had finished rising. Diego’s palm slapped the table hard enough to crack the heavy wood, and his voice was harsh.
“Blood bound, and not to one of ours!”
“That can’t be!”
“It has been seen, Milliner,” Diego spat, his voice rich with contempt. “You constantly agitate for more au-
thority, more autonomy, and yet this is how you squander the trust you’re given! Count yourself fortunate if he’s 
allowed to retain the Proxy Kiss. Or perhaps we should just bind him completely?”
“Who has done this? I’ll break the bond by killing his domitor! Tell me, I… I beg you… signore.” The last 
word came out with a humiliated crack.
“If the storm of ghosts has been such a crisis here as you claim, you have more to worry about than one way-
ward ghoul-child. Is this why you are in such dire straits? Because you’re all thinking of your personal legacies 
instead of the family’s needs? Or are you just exaggerating your problems so that we’ll give you more license for 
your foolishness?”
For a moment the room was tense and deadly still. 
Eric stared at Diego Giovanni. He knew, with cold certainty, that cursing him would be pure suicide but was 
surprised at how much he still wanted to do it, irrationally, insanely. Part of him whispered without words, showing 
him how sweet it would be to give in, to rage at his elder, to die in a brief, pure, thoughtless act.


Kissing Cousins
9
Accorri watched closely. If Eric attacked, Accorri wondered, would there be any way — any conceivable way 
— Accorri could save him? His mind raced, going through every possibility. Except, of course, the possibility of 
joining him in a fight against Diego. That was simply not thinkable. 
Isabel merely watched.
“I… don’t think… you’re being fair… signore.” Each word rasped out of Eric Milliner like a knife coming 
up through his throat.
	
	
æ	
	
	
æ	
	
	
æ	
	
æ
Kay stumbled back into the house, to the wide eyes of her family. To every question, she just said, “Where’s 
Isabel?” Eventually a Latin-looking man finally said, “I think she went back through the conservatory into Eric’s 
office, but.…”
Brushing away tentative hands, she kept moving. Behind her she left whispered talk.
“Did you see…?”
“I think she went off with….”
“Who is that, anyway?”
“…Isabel…?”
The conservatory was lovely. It had a Venetian-style trompe l’oeil ceiling, an inlaid floor, a baroque 
harpsichord flawlessly restored and tuned. A well-used bass viol sat on a stand in the corner, and a 
frumpy old woman sat on the bench at the harpsichord. She smoked a cigarette and caught the ashes 
in her hand. 
“I need to see Isabel,” Kay said, heading toward the door. Moving with surprising speed, the old lady 
got in her way. 
“No one enters,” she said with a thick Italian accent. Kay tried to move past her, but it was like trying to push 
a couch up a spiral staircase.
“No one enters,” the woman repeated. Kay could feel the tears welling up inside her again when the 
door opened and three men emerged. The youngest of them was saying something in Italian to a blond 
man. Kay’s Italian was very poor — something about how a man who could control his animals could 
still prosper. The blond man looked very angry in a cold and distant way. Then Kay saw Isabel and 
threw herself toward her relative.
“Kay! What… what’s wrong?”
Clutching Isabel, Kay couldn’t stop sobbing, even as she realized that the blond man and another, darker, man 
were staring at her. 
“He… he tried to….”
“Shh, calm down now Kay.” Isabel pushed her away, holding her at arm’s length. “Kay! Look at me! Calm down!” 
Gazing into Isabel’s eyes, Kay felt the clenching sobs that had held her relinquish their grip. They were perfect, 
Isabel’s eyes, dark and flawless and deep….
“Tell me exactly what happened,” Isabel said. 
“Cousin Primo tried to rape me.”
Isabel’s gaze flicked over to the dark-haired man, and as Kay looked around she realized the others in the room 
were staring at him — not at her, as she had feared. 
The subject of their stares opened his mouth, closed it, then finally shrugged and said, “Shit. Well, good thing 
she’s a fast runner, I guess.”
His callous tone left Kay speechless. It also provoked a bark of laughter from the old woman and a glare from 
Isabel. Then the young man spoke.


Clanbook: Giovanni
10
“How did you get away?” He asked. The authority of 
his voice pulled her around to look, instinctively, and once 
she looked into his eyes the thought of lying, or even not 
answering, became impossible.
“I think I may have killed him,” she numbly said.
“What?”
	
æ	
	
æ	
æ
Accorri Giovanni had been a powerful man in life, 
and he was immeasurably stronger in death. The thought 
that this… this nobody girl!… might have killed his 
beloved great-great-grandson obliterated all rational 
thought. Before even Isabel could react, he was at Kay’s 
throat, lifting.
He was about to smash her head through the harp-
sichord, when he realized that taking hold of her had 
broken her neck.
Isabel lunged at him. Eric’s attempt to shield Ac-
corri slowed her only for an instant but completely 
destroyed the bass viol when he landed in it. But it 
was enough: Before Isabel could reach Accorri, Diego 
was between them.
“Enough,” he said. 
Neither one would meet his eyes, but both 
stepped back.
“She was to have the Proxy Kiss tonight, Accorri,” 
Isabel said, her voice tight, controlled.
“Fuck you,” Accorri replied.
“Both of you be quiet,” Diego said. Then he spoke 
again, this time in Greek.
A moment of chill spread over the room. Diego 
cocked his head and said, “Primo isn’t dead. He is badly 
injured, however.”
Accorri’s grip tightened for a moment, then he 
dropped Kay’s limp form to the floor.
“Signore, I—” Eric Milliner began.
“Hush,” Diego said. Thinking hard, he was per-
fectly still. He did not blink or move his hands. He 
turned to Isabel.
“This Kay: She is the one of whom you spoke? The 
scholar-athlete?”
Isabel nodded, and added, “With enough guts to 
fight a ghoul and win,” glaring at Accorri.
“She will receive the Embrace tonight,” Diego 
declared.


Kissing Cousins
11
“What?” shouted Accorri, for the second time that night.
“And you, Accorri, will give it to her.”
This time, it was Isabel whose eyes widened with shock.
“Meanwhile, Isabel, you will find Primo and give the Embrace to him.”
“But signore, this is… it’s…” Even as he protested, his master’s reasons were lining up in Accorri’s brain. 
Each sire would be saddled with a disliked and distrusted neonate — the last people they’d enlist for treachery 
against their fellows. Also, each neonate would be bound by loyalty to the very family members they would most 
want to betray.
“Yes, Accorri?”
Accorri shook his head. “I wish you’d asked me to walk fire instead. But whatever you say. For the family.”
“For the family,” Isabel echoed, sourly. She turned to exit the music room as Accorri, resigned to his task, bent to it. 
Diego turned to Eric Milliner. “Perhaps you’re right, Eric. Perhaps the Proxy Kiss is a bit old fashioned in 
these modern nights.”
The old woman gave another bitter laugh. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
12


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
13
You want a history of the Giovanni clan? You got 
it: A death cult of deranged Kindred Embraced the 
scion of the Giovanni family. This scion wasted no time 
burying a knife in their backs. He Embraced childer of 
his own, who became very rich, very powerful, or both, 
and all the other Kindred resented them for it. Knowing 
that the End of the World was coming, the Giovanni 
prepared while the rest of the Kindred fought with each 
other and guzzled fresh blood at each other’s cotillions.
As to the future of the Giovanni clan, here it is, 
too: We win. When the great Gehenna comes and the 
rest of the undead are burning in smoldering columns 
of brimstone or sucking down their childer’s precious 
vitae, Augustus will come forward, peel back the skin 
between the worlds of the living and the dead, and we’ll 
all carve thrones from the bones of those too stupid to 
know what had been a long time coming.
Oh, but don’t start writing checks just yet, paisan. 
You’re new. All the smartmouthing I just did isn’t going 
to help you get ahead. Not without some understanding.
Don’t roll your fucking eyes at me. I’m telling you this 
as a favor to your mother, God rest her soul. You’re one of 
the lucky ones. You get to learn the big picture. Most of 
the young ones have lazy sires or only listen when we get 
to the parts about making a million dollars or sitting on 
their brothers’ faces. Most of the young ones die.
New blood like you comes pretty cheaply in the 
modern nights. So, now that you’re Kindred you’ve 
got it all figured out, huh? All the Giovanni family 
secrets? Now you know why the April 4th reunions 
are so important and why so few get invited to them? 
Well then, answer me this. What is the significance of 
the reunion’s date? And where did all these Kindred in 
our family come from? 
Chapter One:  
A Familiar  
Conceit
Whereas his kinsmen chiefly brought him up;
So soon he profits in divinity,
The fruitful plot of scholarism graced,
That shortly he was graced with doctor’s name,
Excelling all, whose sweet delight disputes
In heavenly matters of theology,
’Til swollen with cunning of a self conceit,
His waxen wings did mount above his reach,
And, melting, heavens conspired his overthrow;
For falling to a devilish exercise,
And glutted more with learning’s golden gifts,
He surfeits upon cursed necromancy.
— Christopher Marlowe, Doctor Faustus (1604 A Text)


Clanbook: Giovanni
14
No idea, huh? See, you’ve just gone from being 
ignorant kine (that’s what we vampires refer to hu-
mans as, see) to ignorant Kindred. That’s what most 
vampires refer to themselves as. Yeah, I know. It’s like 
we’ve got a different name for everything. And by the 
way, don’t ever use the word “vampire.” It’s stupid. 
Sure, Kindred is affected, but if you refer to yourself 
as a vampire to another Kindred, they’ll probably look 
at you like you just shouted “motherfucker” in the 
middle of Mass. Shut up and deal with it. Giovanni 
can handle the human side of the family remaining in 
the dark about things; hell, we prefer them that way. 
With all the shit that’s going down right now, what 
we cannot abide is another ignorant Giovanni whelp. 
Everything is a little too precarious to have another 
wet-behind-the-ears neonate Kindred around (neonate 
means your kind, newbie). So it’s up to me as your sire, 
the one who Embraced you to bring you, my childe, 
up to speed. Capice? Good.
We got a lot to cover. On the plus side, though, this 
story’s got everything — sex scandals, incest, nigrimancy, 
connections to organized crime. The list goes on and 
on. So, sit back, relax and enjoy. Just promise me you 
won’t make this shit into a movie, or I’ll have to kill you.
Before History
Now, this is the part of the “Welcome to being 
Kindred” talk where I’m supposed to tell you about 
crazy farmers murdering their brothers and ancient cities 
of Kindred coexisting with mortals and shit like that.
Well, I’m not going to. I’m not going to because 
it smacks of all that pompous self-satisfaction that 
the other clans have in spades. Invariably, The Most 
Auguste Historiye of Our Noble Clanne is a pack of 
self-congratulatory lies that other Kindred construct 
to fit their self-images. Believe me, I’ve heard enough 
tales of Toreador bull-dancer goddesses and marble-
skinned Ventrue conquerors to know that you can 
trust a creation myth only so much as you can trust 
the teller. And remember, you’re Kindred now — you 
can’t trust anybody else.
Add to the fact that clan histories are largely pro-
paganda the fact that they’re outright wrong. Ask most 
of those other motherfuckers about the progenitor and 
you’ll hear some cockeyed claptrap about Cain-with-
an-“e” and being cast out of the Land of Nod (or maybe 
banished to the Land of Nod — I don’t remember) and 
other sorts of riffs at the Biblical level. Now, I’m as 
faithful a Christian as I trust you are, but I know as well 
as any sensible Kindred that the Bible is fucking meta-
phor. Jesus, if he existed at all, was a man upon whose 
shoulders the weight of the world fell — in principle. 
He’s like George Washington. He didn’t single-handedly 
bring the Word to a needy people, and he didn’t spring 
from the unsexed loins of a virgin. Shit like that’s just 
not physically possible. All of the deeds attributed to 
Jesus are the work of an uncountable number of early 
Christians, boiled down to the parable that is the Bible. 
It’s the same with Kindred — “Caine” is an early mani-
festation of the Everykindred.
No, the truth of the matter is that there was no 
“first vampire.” Or if there was, no one remembers the 
motherfucker’s name. God didn’t look askance at the 
world and say, “Okay, now it’s time for some blood-
sucking parasites to run around and fuck with the 
Children of Seth” — Seth being another metaphorical 
personage from the Bible, and the father of the race of 
mortals as we know it tonight. No, the earliest Kindred 
were part of the world as it was before the sudario — 
the wall that separates the dead from the living (and 
us) — came to be.
Look at some of the concepts of the afterlife that 
almost universally arise when you get into early cultures. 
The Underworld was a place you could physically go. To 
the Greeks, you could enter the Underworld through 
caves and caverns; it existed literally below the ground. 
To the Egyptians, traveling westward would eventually 
bring a man to the land of the dead. Certain Native 
American cultures believe that the soul goes to the 
“happy hunting grounds” after death. Even some more 
“modern” conceptualizations of what comes after death 
involve places: the Christian Heaven and Hell, the 
Norse Valhalla and Niflheim, Kabbalist Rabbi Joseph 
ben Shalom’s “abyss of nothingness” that is crossed at 
the moment of death and Gnostic Awakening. These 
are all places. They’re all locations. They’re all geo-
graphically describable settings that, whether physical, 
metaphysical or spiritual, are places you can stand and 
smoke a cigarette.
It only makes sense, then, that if you can go to these 
places, you can come back from them.
That is what a Kindred is. It is, for better or for 
worse, a person who has come back from the place 
known as death. Not everyone can do it. And I don’t 
think anyone can do it more than once.
Don’t look sideways at me. I’m as Catholic as you 
are. I know that when I died I should have gone to 
Heaven or Hell. But I didn’t. You didn’t. Our souls, for 
whatever thanatological reason you choose to ascribe 
to it, got part of the way there, said, “Holy shit, I for-
got something,” and came back to inhabit our bodies. 
I don’t pretend to know why — that’s something the 
wisest elders in the clan have been studying since before 
there even was such a thing as Clan Giovanni. But I 
know that it’s true.
I’m not trying to be all new-age and mystical with 
you. Fuck that. God has designs for a person, that’s what 
I believe. It just so happens that God’s designs for those 


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
15
of us who became Kindred are just a little different from 
what’s normal. If you ask me, you got no reason even 
trying to figure out why God wants Kindred stalking 
His creation. You may as well ask yourself why there’re 
such things as wolves or lions. God knows. You don’t. 
You can’t, so don’t fuck with it. You do your job and 
let God do His.
That “coming back,” that return from the land of 
the dead is what sets you apart from the living, and it’s 
what sets the Giovanni apart from the other undead. I’m 
not debating that the Embrace works. You don’t have 
to walk to a special room that’s labeled “Dead People” 
and step back out. Your body doesn’t make the journey. 
Your soul does. It makes the trip and then returns to 
your body — that’s the Embrace.
That being the case, I’m sure I have to shed only 
a little more light on the subject. Unless you’re one of 
the lowborn American caste of Giovanni, you prob-
ably know that our stock in trade is souls, that the 
Giovanni have the power to grab the spiritual part 
of a mortal (or, more accurately, her spiritual residue 
left after she’s departed) and do what we want with it. 
Hell, it wouldn’t surprise me if some Giovanni elder 
somewhere knew how to create Kindred without even 
resorting to the Embrace, maybe catch the soul of a 
dead man and stuff it back into his body at the moment 
of transition. Ah, but never mind that — I’m getting 
away from myself.
The most important thing is to remember that, 
as Kindred, you were made. You were Embraced for a 
reason. Your soul animates a clinically dead body for a 
reason, or, more likely, a multitude of reasons that just 
happen to coincide. My reason for Embracing you isn’t 
the same reason that Diego asked me to Embrace you, 
which isn’t the same reason your mother wanted me 
to step forward and suggest it in the first place, which 
isn’t the same reason that Margaret Milliner wanted to 
Embrace you instead of having me do it. And after all 
that, none of those reasons are the same reasons that 
God makes it possible for the whole thing to happen to 
begin with. Regardless of the nature of any single one 
of those purposes, those purposes do exist. That’s the 
best way to look at it.
The worst way to look at it is to consider that you 
fucked up dying and came home for more. Welcome 
back. Now the rules are different.
Mortal Roots
I’m not going to pretend to be an 
expert on this part. All the shit we’re go-
ing to talk about happened as much as two 
thousand years ago. That’s not to say we’ve 
hidden Kindred in our midst for two millennia. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
16
We’ve borne that distinction for only the last thousand 
years, give or take. That’s the reason most of those in 
the know believe us to be merely a product of the rise 
of the burgeoning middle class toward the end of the 
Dark Ages. That’s the problem with the other clans; 
they overlook the longevity and resources of the mortal 
Giovanni family. Kindred pride can blind you to the fact 
that the kine can and do affect history. But I digress.
The fact is that the Giovanni family first came to 
prominence at the height of the Roman Empire. Of 
course, we weren’t called the Giovanni at the time. Our 
precursors were known then as the Jovian family. Much 
as we Giovanni would later do during the Crusades, the 
Jovians made a tidy profit on the constant wars that 
plagued the Empire. The annals some elder seneschals 
keep at the Mausoleum in Venice even include cargo 
manifests the Jovian family transacted as early as 31 
BC, when the Jovians shipped supplies to Octavian’s 
armies in northern Africa and then, to make an extra 
buck or two, ferried spies and messages back to Rome 
for Mark Antony’s side of the war. It wouldn’t surprise 
me if the Jovians sold the Romans the metal to craft 
the nails they pinned Christ to the cross with (again, 
assuming that Christ was real).
And, in a tradition the Giovanni continue to 
uphold, the Jovians began our practice of nigrimancy. 
Of course, the Black Art had yet to gain its dreadful 
stigma during the time of Roman dominance. Ances-
tor worship was accepted as part of the natural order. 
Emperors were gods, and most families kept some sort 
of shrine or another in their homes to please the spirits 
of the departed. Familial responsibility did not end with 
death, on either side of the sudario. It was important 
that the dutiful lares familiares be venerated and the 
spiteful lemures be appeased. In return, the spirits of 
our ancestors blessed the family’s endeavors and came 
to our aid in time of need. In particular, the founder of 
our line was held in the highest esteem. Although his 
true name is lost to us, with the possible exception of 
Augustus or one of the most exacting anziani elders, he 
became identified with the deity Dis Pater, god of the 
Roman Underworld. Quite ironic, considering the root 
of our name came from Jove, god of the sky.
Through a combination of the mortal Jovians’ 
shrewd business acumen and possible aid from Dis Pater 
and the family’s other dearly departed, wealth flowed 
into Jovian coffers from all over the Empire. The Jo-
vian family earned its wealth through moneylending, 
merchant ventures, shipping and travel, and even some 
degree of artisanship. You might say that they were 
one of the original conglomerates. Of course, that’s 
not exactly true — the family certainly wasn’t a very 


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
17
centralized entity, so far as I can tell. It was like any 
family, with the individual members doing what they 
wanted. It just so happened that the Jovian family was 
also a prime network. The guy who sold you Venetian 
sculpture also had a brother who could get you spices 
cheaper than everyone else paid for them, and their 
cousin quarried marble that would look perfect for 
the floors of your new palazzo. They were guildsmen 
and black marketeers, talent craftsmen and scurrilous 
middlemen. One would fuck your sister and another 
would whisper of your grievance to the Caesar. They 
were everywhere, almost unheard of (or at least not 
as prominent as they would soon become) during the 
last days of the Senate and suddenly ubiquitous at the 
emergence of the Empire.
Some of the Jovians, I think, also had to be aware 
of the Kindred. I’ve talked to one of the anziani about 
what showed up on a really old bill of lading as “two 
casks, filled with earth and other sundry material, to be 
left for retrieval” at Roman ports in Corsica and at the 
southern tip of what became Spain. Of course, I can 
make no guarantees, but I’m personally certain that 
also, during the Punic Wars that served as the mortal 
cover for the Malkavian-Brujah vendetta, any number 
Dis Pater
Although unknown to many but the eldest of Giovanni Kindred and the most dedicated students of 
the family’s history, the potent spirit that Giovanni anziani in the know consider the legacy of their family’s 
progenitor has wielded great power in the Underworld for thousands of years. In that time, the spirit calling 
itself Dis Pater, or Father Wealth, has subtly influenced the living and undead descendants of the Jovian family 
with varying degrees of success. While the standard Giovanni opinion on spiriti is that they’re only around to 
be used to achieve the family’s goals, like any other exploitable resource, most anziani — and even Augustus 
himself — treat Dis Pater with respect. The Necromancers cite several reasons for this unique reverence.
First, Dis Pater is a being of immense power, both as a potent force within wraithly society and in terms of 
his own personal puissance, and it’s prudent to have such a spirit on your side when many wraiths would be 
more than satisfied to see the Necromancers destroyed. The Giovanni’s veneration and the emotional energy 
it generates serve to give the powerful spirito a reason to intercede on the clan’s behalf when one faction or 
another in the Underworld decides it has had enough of the Kindred. For ages, a charge of direct violation 
of the Dictum Mortuum (the Code of the Dead, which until recently prohibited spiriti from interacting with 
the lands of the living) levied by someone of Dis Pater’s influence was usually sufficient to put an end to any 
attempt at wraithly retaliation against the Giovanni. Tonight, given the state of things across the sudario, no 
one’s sure of just what Father Wealth’s reach may be. Just keep in mind that on more than one occasion, Dis 
Pater has used its influence to pull Giovanni fat from the fire. And of course, by the same token, Dis Pater 
may also use his influence and might to harm those who displease him. The ancient wraith’s level of power is 
such that those Giovanni who make the mistake of showing improper reverence or, worse still, irreverence, 
tend to suffer grave misfortune (sometimes culminating in their Final Death). As the Giovanni well know, a 
Kindred has no better incentive for respect than the sense of self-preservation. 
Second, Augustus shows Dis Pater respect. Not that the entire clan is populated by yes-men (though 
given Giovanni Embracing practices, few Necromancers would deny some truth in that), but rather, this ties 
into the respect based on self-preservation mentioned before. If you disrespect someone Augustus Giovanni 
himself reveres, you are indirectly showing your disrespect of the Antediluvian himself. Given Augustus’ 
temperament and ability to hold a grudge, this is not the way to enjoy a long unlife. 
Finally, in the case of the eldest of the Giovanni especially, the reverence of Dis Pater is an ingrained 
habit. It’s something the anziani practiced in their breathing days, with the Wealthy Father being venerated 
alongside the Christian saints in the uniquely Giovanni observance of Catholicism. In Giovanni dogma, Dis 
Pater is the equivalent of the patron saint of the Giovanni family itself. Although to some modern Giovanni, 
even a few in Italy, Catholicism is nothing more than a social event where family and neighbors spend an hour 
or two each week renewing ties of community, most of the mainstream branch of the family, at least, observes 
a devotion that, while unsettling to many Kindred outside the family, nonetheless takes a reverential stance 
on the Trinity and the agents of God on Earth, passed on or otherwise. The Catholic Giovanni are taught 
from an early age that in times of need a member of the Giovanni family may call upon Dis Pater for aid and 
that, if the need is great enough, he will respond — a fact that has been borne out for many of the anziani 
elders since becoming Kindred. Having a patron saint literally come to one’s aid is a great way to reinforce a 
person’s, or a Kindred’s, reverence.


Clanbook: Giovanni
18
of fleeing or rallying Kindred traveled between Carthage 
and Rome and perhaps back again aboard the earliest 
Jovian privateers. Certainly, some Jovian was Embraced 
by one clan or another for her personal assets. Who 
knows? Maybe even one of the Premascines — I’ll talk 
about them later — or the brood-mother of one of those 
infamous Roman Nosferatu dens was one of the early 
Jovian Embraces.
Within 200 years — an ironically short and long 
time for Kindred, as you will no doubt find out unless 
you meet your Final Death early — this loose cabal 
of related mortals became a wealthy and increasingly 
close-knit family, setting the precedent for the Giovanni 
merchant princes of the coming Renaissance. Obviously, 
they weren’t everywhere or in everything that found its 
way to the Empire, but that didn’t matter. They were the 
Kennedys and the Medicis of their time. The Jovians 
had enough commerce going and enough contacts to 
expand it to keep their pockets fat for centuries to come.
With that wealth came power. Jovians gained high 
offices throughout the Empire, finally culminating in one 
of the family becoming emperor, Flavius Jovianus, in the 
fourth century. The Jovians had been Christian since it 
had been an option, if the almanacs of Ludo Giovanni are 
true. Flavius Jovianus became emperor after the death of 
Julian the Apostate, once again turning the Empire into 
a Christian nation after Julian’s reign of paganism. Then 
again, Julianus Apostata was the nephew of Constantine 
the Great, who made the empire Christian officially. The 
state religion seesawed back and forth between emper-
ors, but that’s always the case with the issues in politics. 
Regardless of all this back-and-forth, the Jovians had 
chosen their side years before.
But the halcyon days were not to last. Flavius Jovianus 
ruled as emperor for one fucking year before dying on the 
way from the frontier to Constantinople. Yes, he had a 
Christian burial — I believe you can still find the tomb 
at the Church of the Apostles there. By the end of the 
fourth century, the Empire was already in decline in the 
West. Tribes of Germanic barbarians threatened to over-
run Rome, and by the fifth century, it was obvious they 
would probably succeed. Rome was sacked twice prior 
to its eventual surrender to Odoacer in AD 476. Both 
times, the Jovians weathered the Germans’ depredations 
by buying their longevity or with aid from their familial 
guardians. However, in their moment of greatest need, 
the lares familiares deserted them, or worse, appeared as 
lemures and added to the destruction.
Fortune’s Fall
What we later learned was that a great storm had 
erupted in the Underworld, to coincide with the Em-
pire’s fall. At the time, however, all the Jovians knew 
was that the ancestors whom they had venerated for 
centuries had cut and run when their aid was most in 
demand. To this night, the Giovanni family no longer 
asks aid of wraiths, whether family or otherwise — 
rather, they compel it. 
Fearing for its safety, the family cut its losses and 
fled to an island settlement founded by Roman refugees 
from Attila the Hun’s invasions a quarter century earlier. 
After that, it was every man for himself for a while, but 
at the end of the fifth century, 12 of these island com-
munities decide to band together under a council of their 
representatives. In the beginning, these settlements paid 
lip service to the Eastern Roman Empire, but it wasn’t 
long before the Lombards waltzed in and kicked the 
shit out of the remainder of the Roman army in Italy. 
And so, more refugees fled to the safety of the islands 
of the Venetian lagoon, increasing the settlements’ 
population. The Jovians, while on the ropes, weren’t 
crushed, however. They adapted to the environment, 
settling in roles of leadership (who do you think was 
on that representative council?) and mercantilism. 
Whenever people had a need, the Jovians were always 
among the ones to provide.
Now the next couple of centuries were pretty quiet, 
by Italian standards. The Lombard invaders and the 
Roman forces reached a stalemate. The nascent Venice 
continued to grow, becoming more influential in the 
region, electing its first doge (the Venetian dialect of the 
Latin title dux) in the early eighth century as a response 
to rebellious sentiment engendered by Emperor Leo 
III’s position in the Iconoclast movement the previous 
year. The iconoclasts, Leo among them, saw religious 
iconography as sinful, because man had no right to 
represent God as filtered through his own feeble senses. 
The iconodules, on the other hand, saw no problem 
with representations of God, reasoning that by virtue 
of the Incarnation, God was man, and therefore it was 
no big heresy to represent him graphically. Needless to 
say, this was the religious hot button of the century, with 
iconodules claiming that the iconoclasts were replacing 
images of the glory of God with monuments to their own 
vanity (read a biography of Constantine V sometime), 
while the iconoclasts maintained that God’s glory was 
God’s glory and it’s His decision how to reveal it. The 
whole situation wasn’t particularly new; the question 
had been raised since the first stick figure that someone 
wrote “God” under had surfaced five seconds after the 
Word was spoken, but you know how easy it is to fire 
up the zealots on either side of an issue.
Shut the fuck up; this all has a point. From that 
argument, the Giovanni family emerged, complete with 
its modern surname, as a prominent power within the 
newly formed state. Divorcing themselves from the 


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
19
references to Jove, god of the sky, the new Giovanni 
reinvented their identities in a new Italian (as opposed 
to Roman) context. This satisfied the iconoclast Jovians/ 
Giovanni in that they no longer took “God” as their 
surname, and satisfied the iconodules in the family by 
removing the issue from debate altogether. Don’t think 
that the concern was any less among the former Jovi-
ans than it was among the rest of Christianity. One of 
the Giovanni iconoclast’s strongest proponents, Piero 
Giovanni, wrote two dogmatic treatises on the subject, 
practically screaming that, “We cannot be godly if we 
claim to be god when introductions are made.” I hope 
that he’s settled down now that he’s dead.
No Rest For the Wicked
After the resolution of that particular hysteria, 
things calmed down… until Charlemagne came onto 
the scene.
See, at the end of the eighth century, the Lom-
bard king Desiderius decided to stick his nose into a 
dynastic dispute among the Franks. All this succeeded 
in doing was pissing off the guy who came out on top 
of the dispute, Charlemagne, and convincing him to 
head south to kick some Lombard ass. Which he did. 
Charlemagne defeated the Lombards at their capital 
of Pavia (south of Milan) in 774. In a very generous 
gesture, Charlemagne divided the conquered lands with 
Pope Adrian in Rome, creating the Papal States. Such 
generosity, and probably no small amount of coercion, 
induced the Pope to name Charlemagne’s son Pepin King 
of Italy in 787. This is where Venice, and by extension 
the Giovanni, become involved. 
At the turn of the ninth century, Oberlerio degli 
Antinori, then Doge of Venice, foolishly committed 
Venice to the Frankish empire — which by then had 
been dubbed the Holy Roman Empire — in an effort to 
strengthen his very tenuous grasp on power, fearing a coup 
like the one he himself had engineered to put himself in 
charge of Venice. By that time, Charlemagne was seeking 
to consolidate his power in Northern Italy by chipping 
away at areas like, oh, let’s say Venice, that were histori-
cally subject to the rule of the Eastern Roman Empire. 
Then, when his position had become even less tenable, 
the Doge invited Charlemagne’s son, King Pepin, to send 
an army up from Ravenna to occupy Venice.
Overthrowing the inept Doge, the communities of 
Venice set aside their differences and formed a com-
mon defense. At the southern end of the Venetian 
lagoon, the communities of Chioggia and Palestrina 
fell quickly to the advance of Pepin’s army in the spring 
of 810, followed soon after by Grado and Jesolo at the 
northern end of the lagoon. Then, however, Pepin was 
stymied by the city’s watery defenses. The Giovanni 
were one of the patriot families responsible for having 
all channel markers and buoys removed, making the 
shallow lagoon a hazardous maze of hidden shoals and 
swift currents impenetrable to the Italian king’s navy. 
In short, it was a big “fuck you” to the dynasty that 
Venice had long sought to remain independent of. I 
think we should use that tactic again sometime — or 
maybe remove all the lane markers and directional 
dividers from the highways and thoroughfares when 
it becomes prudent. But that’s neither here nor there. 
I can’t think of too many times invading armies have 
threatened Boston or Venice in the past 50 years. It’s 
still a great idea, though.
Anyway, Pepin’s army spent six months camped 
on the mainland, where they suffered bouts of de-
bilitating summer fevers, harassing attacks by the 
Venetians and constant rumors of a Byzantine fleet 
on its way to support the city. In the end, Pepin and 
his army withdrew, with only a token agreement by 
Venice to pay annual tribute to show for their efforts. 
King Pepin died a few weeks later, and his father 
Charlemagne gave up his ambitions of conquering 
Venice. That’s what you get when you fuck with 
the Giovanni.
More important than the military victory, though, 
the campaign served to forge a sense of community 
among the Venetians that defined them for the next 
thousand years. The siege was also responsible for mov-
ing the Venetian capital from its original location on 
the barrier island of Malamocca to a better defended 
group of islands near the center of the lagoon, an area 
known as Rivo Alto, or more commonly Rialto. Many 
Venetian families, including the Giovanni, moved to 
Rialto for the protection provided by the treacherous 
shallows that lay between it and the invading force. 
Even after the siege was broken, the capital remained 
at Rialto, as did the Giovanni. The area at Rialto soon 
became the metropolitan center of the lagoon, the city 
known tonight as Venice. “Rialto” even remains the 
name of the commercial center surrounding the oldest 
bridge across Venice’s Grand Canal.
For the next few centuries, Venice continued to 
grow, becoming the dominant maritime power on the 
Adriatic Sea. The Giovanni took advantage of the 
opportunities afforded to them by their location, their 
position and their wraithly benefactors and reestab-
lished themselves as the wealthy heirs to the legacy 
the Jovians had left behind. It was at this time that 
we came to the attention of the Cappadocian clan of 
Kindred. Many of their members were obsessed with 
death, and several led nihilistic heresies, fed from the 
dead or maintained elaborate (for the time) laboratories 
where they pondered the mysteries of life and death. 
Some also made their havens in the monasteries of 
Europe and Northern Africa. Their interest in death 


Clanbook: Giovanni
20
was different from that of the Giovanni, however. While 
the Cappadocians may have been contemplative in 
nature, their powers over the dead were rudimentary 
and not at all spiritual. It was almost the opposite of 
the Giovanni — while we venerated the souls of the 
dead, the Cappadocians could manipulate corpses and 
foster deadly disease.
Our ability with nigrimancy intrigued these Kin-
dred, especially their founder, if the old tales are to be 
believed. Although the Cappadocians were well versed 
in thanatology and had developed a necromantic power 
giving them mastery over physical death, they new little 
about what happened to the souls of those who die. It 
was their elder’s hope that the Giovanni might reveal 
these lost Roman secrets to them — which I guess, in 
a way, we did.
The Birth of  
Clan Giovanni
In 1005, the elder of the Cappadocian clan himself 
Embraced Augustus Giovanni, then and forever after 
the patriarch of the Giovanni family, in the depths of 
the Cappadocian temple at Mount Erciyes in Turkey. 
There to witness the event were a couple of the An-
cient’s chief toadies, Japheth and Constancia, who had 
both argued against bringing the Giovanni into the 
Cappadocian fold.
Fuck them all. They’re dead now.
This wasn’t just an Embrace of pomp and cir-
cumstance, though. This was the moment that the 
Cappadocians doomed themselves and the exact 
moment Augustus Giovanni made a deal with the 
Devil himself.
By different tellings of the story, the leader of the 
Cappadocians had long before been driven mad with the 
weight of undeath, or had achieved an almost saintly state 
of transcendence. Me, I believe that he was bug-fucking-
nuts, which was probably why Japheth and Constancia 
opposed him. They could see that Augustus’ heart was 
black as sin and as greedy as the merchant families that 
had been his ancestors from a millennium ago. Somewhere 
before the Giovanni became part of the fold, a cabal of 
these Cappadocians, the elder included, got the idea in 
their head that they could atone for the Curse of Caine 
by ridding the world of its cause. No, they didn’t want to 
destroy the race of Kindred. Well, maybe some did, but 
that’s beside the point. No, these lunatics decided that 
removing the cause of undeath was also the next step in 
their own undead evolution. They wanted to diablerize God.


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
21
I’m not making this up. Go through the library of 
any Giovanni who has any knowledge at all of the prin-
ciples of necromancy and you’ll find the works of some 
of these Cappadocians on their shelves. Read them, and 
it’s frighteningly simple — these motherfuckers though 
that by killing God, they could become gods. Remember 
all that shit I was talking about before? About the Bible 
and the Cainite myth being metaphors? And about how 
stupid fucking Kindred take it all literally? Well, the 
Cappadocians were no better than their peers. For all 
the time they spent in monastic study and at the feet 
of the philosophers of the ages, they were too damn 
stupid to figure out that when their scrolls of thanatol-
ogy mentioned “mastery of life and death,” they were 
talking about power over the spiriti. “Life beyond life” 
wasn’t the same eternal life promised by the Word; the 
“other world” wasn’t Heaven or Hell and neither was 
“the home of the spirit.” In their search for answers as 
to what the state of death actually was, they unearthed 
a few primitive and florid necromantic rituals. In their 
own vast sophistication and wisdom, they thought 
that the primitive sorcerers who wrote the rituals they 
found couldn’t possibly be so advanced as to use artistic 
language. If I told you I was “rich beyond your wildest 
dreams,” do you really think I’d mean literally that I had 
more money than your mind could possibly comprehend? 
Well, that’s what these Cappadocians thought, and I 
guess that’s why they were all screwed in the head. They 
thought they found the Big Answer and it was now just 
a matter of Asking the Right Question.
In a way, it’s pretty tragic. I’m demeaning them, 
but that’s only because cruelty so easily becomes humor 
to our kind. In the same amount of time it took them 
to doom their own futures they resigned themselves 
forever to failure. Even if we didn’t come along and 
do the world the favor of taking them off the face of 
the Earth, they would have forever been plaguing the 
world with their skewed understanding. Just imagine 
if you grew up thinking “blue” was “red,” how fucked 
up would you be? Okay, now apply that to the funda-
mental perception of your life or unlife instead of your 
wardrobe or car-choice color. Sad. Maybe I’m missing 
a vital part of how this could reveal the Cappadocians’ 
true natures as the saintly instead of the deranged, but 
that’s what makes me believe so strongly that they were 
out of their minds.
To get back to the issue at hand, the Cappadocians 
wanted to Embrace the Giovanni to learn their secrets 
of nigrimancy. The Giovanni, of course, wanted to get 
something out of the deal themselves.
And that was where we got fucked.
I said that the Cappadocians were crazy, but I 
didn’t say they were stupid. They figured that no one 
in their right mind would jump at the “chance” to 
become undead. So, as you might guess, they candy-
coated the whole thing. Eternal life! Power untold! 
Eternity free from disease and decrepitude! The whole 
line of bullshit you hear from neonates who haven’t 
yet come to grips with what they are and sweet-talkers 
looking to Embrace their girlfriends. Of course, they 
didn’t mention the dependency on blood, the fact that 
Augustus and his brood would never again be able to 
see the sun, or, oh, the simple caveat that you have 
to die to become a Cappadocian.
To his credit, though, Augustus was not a man 
who went off half-cocked. You don’t become patriarch 
of a merchant family by being a moron. Augustus had 
spoken with Kindred before — he had even entertained 
offers from the Ventrue and a Germanic Toreador to 
do precisely what the Cappadocians were trying to 
convince him to do. But Augustus, damn his soul, 
knew what to look for in a potential sire. His driving 
goals in the arrangement were power and… well, op-
portunity. Augustus didn’t forever want to be tied into 
the prestation games of the Ventrue and Toreador, and 
he certainly didn’t want to be brought into the night 
with weak blood, even if he didn’t fully understand 
the concept of generation at the time. He knew about 
the downside of becoming Kindred and was willing to 
accept it so long as he found a little room to maneu-
ver after the Embrace. The Cappadocians, deluded, 
preoccupied and not the least bit worldly, gave him 
everything the Ventrue and Toreador couldn’t — the 
power of a Methuselah and the chance to parlay that 
power, however treacherously, into a big fucking 
promotion for himself and his bloodline.
The heads of the Giovanni family debated it for 
probably the better part of a year. Remember, though 
that this was the beginning of the 11th century. It 
was the end of the Dark Ages and the beginning of 
the Age of Faith. Once they looked past the initial 
shock of horror at kicking around the idea of becom-
ing vampires until the end of time, the family’s elders 
saw nothing wrong with creating a pact with the 
creatures of the night. In the modern nights, if you 
gathered your family around you and said, “Wife, son; 
I’ve been thinking it over, and we should probably 
become blood-sucking predators of the night in order 
to maximize the return on the family investments,” 
they’d run over to the neighbor’s house so they could 
get a third signature on the form to have you com-
mitted to a mental hospital. Then, though, in less 
cynical times, taking this Devil’s deal was the height 
of pragmatism. Death magic had long been practiced 
by the family in the form of ancestor worship — this 
new development certainly couldn’t hurt. In fact, the 
elders reasoned, it might well bring the Giovanni closer 
to their ancestor-spirits. Dis Pater and the lares familiares 


Clanbook: Giovanni
22
approved, having the same sense of value that many 
of the Giovanni patresfamilias did. They planned some 
logistics — obviously, not everyone in the family would 
be Embraced, because apparently that was forbidden, 
and the Giovanni brood would be so new to the whole 
thing that they would have to bide their time and learn 
the nature of their undead existences. Besides, Kindred 
apparently could not create mortal issue, and the family 
needed to continue to grow.
One fell swoop: fate sealed. At the Erciyes mountain 
temple, Augustus let the Cappadocians do the deed.
The whole affair wasn’t without its petty betray-
als, though. As I said before, Constancia and Japheth 
didn’t agree with their elder’s decision. As the elder 
Cappadocian bled into a vessel and instructed his 
progeny to pass that blood through the exsangui-
nated Augustus, Constancia and Japheth kept a bit 
of that vitae in order to hold a bit of power over the 
other two Kindred. The blood provided a sorcerous 
connection to the elder as well as Augustus once 
they turned him.
In the modern nights, this shit doesn’t work 
anymore, and I can only guess why. Upon the Em-
brace, you have to receive blood directly from the 
sire. You can’t just carry around a sealed container 
of blood and pour it into a dead guy’s mouth to cre-
ate insta-Kindred. But perhaps it was the fact that 
mysticism hadn’t vanished completely from the world 
at that point, or the elder Cappadocian’s blood was 
Another Theory
The Giovanni’s painful Kiss is sometimes 
known as the Curse of Lamia, to certain learned 
or conspiratorial Kindred. During the Giovanni 
purge of the Cappadocian clan, Augustus himself 
diablerized the leader of a cult of Cappadocians 
known as Lamia. Lamia’s powers reportedly in-
cluded the ability to foster disease, to cough forth 
a cloud of mephitic vapor, and to transform her 
Kiss into an agonizing bite.
According to one account of the purge, Lamia 
used the last of her mystic powers to curse Augustus 
as he committed Amaranth upon her, blighting 
him and his issue to cause a similar agony when-
ever they fed. If this is true, it was a grand act of 
defiance. Skeptics, however, remain unconvinced. 
Could this secret cultist have harbored such power 
to afflict an entire bloodline with her spite? And 
Lamia reportedly fell in the early 18th century, but 
accounts of the Giovanni’s painful Kiss have existed 
as far back as the first century after their Embrace.
As with so many other mysteries of the race of 
Caine, the world may never know.


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
23
so potent that the rules didn’t apply. Whatever, it 
worked back then. Now, when the whole of Kindred 
society hides from mortals instead of terrifying them 
at night, and the most puissant “elder” you’re likely 
to meet in America is nine steps descended from 
the mythical Caine, this seems either absurd or, to 
turn my own arguments against me, metaphorical. 
But it’s not.
You see, Japheth and Constancia hid their master’s 
blood away. Constancia prepared a clay jar and sealed 
the vitae within with beeswax while Japheth spoke a 
curse over the jar, which is now known as the True 
Vessel. In fact, some Kindred historians speculate 
that our own clan’s weakness came from that curse, 
that Japheth wished for the mortals upon whom we 
Giovanni feed to feel the same burning agony he and 
Constancia and the rest of the Cappadocians felt at 
their elder’s decision not only to Embrace us, but to 
share his own powerful vitae with us. In any event, 
while the Giovanni didn’t know about it, this True 
Vessel held immense power — power that could be 
used against us because of its unholy connection to 
us. It was the blood of betrayal, the vitae that doomed 
the Cappadocian clan.
The Premascines
Some smartass made up the word “Premascine” as 
a joke and it stuck. It’s from “pre,” meaning “before,” 
and “masca,” meaning “bite.” Before the bite. Before 
Augustus put the bite on the Cappadocians. Droll.
Anyway, despite the word for them being sarcastic, 
quite a few Giovanni Kindred were Embraced before the 
Giovanni were themselves a clan. Claudius Giovanni, 
for example, was the childe of Augustus before Au-
gustus claimed his sire’s blood. You’ll no doubt hear 
of Ambrogino Giovanni at some point in your unlife, 
who, in addition to having the dubious honor of being 
perhaps the most self-interested fuck in an entire clan 
of self-interested fucks, has all but gone rogue, putting 
his own desires before the well-being of his fellows. 
Sure, he’s still welcome at the dinner table, but that’s 
only because whoever’s hosting him would like some 
idea of what he’s up to, if only to protect herself from 
him and maybe divert him toward a rival. A few more 
Giovanni Cappadocians must still be out there and 
active, too.
Not every Premascine agreed with Augustus’ deci-
sion to take the mantle of clan status upon himself, 
however. Just as some Jovians stood on either side of 
the Iconoclast heresy, so did some Giovanni Cappa-
docians stand on the other side of Augustus’ blatant 
bid for supremacy. In the modern nights, they’re only 
whispered about, but you can be certain they’re out 
there. Nothing kills a Kindred except another Kindred, 


Clanbook: Giovanni
24
and these venerable monsters had the good sense to 
go to ground before their personal issues of dissent 
became fatal for them.
Some are rumored to have taken refuge in the 
canals of Venice. They supposedly make their ha-
vens beneath the surface of the water. Granted, I’ve 
never seen one; no one I know has, but two of your 
cuginos, Lupo and Giuseppe, swear that they’re down 
there. Personally, I’m more than happy to keep them 
as rumors. Think about it — they’re at least four cen-
turies old, they’re bitter enough to have thought, “It’s 
better to hang out beneath the water for hundreds of 
years than to see the family anymore,” and whatever 
they’ve been doing down there for those hundreds 
of years, you just know it can’t be pleasant. The very 
idea scares the shit out of me, and I’ve seen shit that 
would turn you paler than you already are. Now, you 
know that tonight’s Venice is built on the ruins of old 
Venice, right? That every year, the water table rises 
just a bit higher in the Old World? Well, that’s where 
they make their havens, in the submerged old city. If 
you ever have a chance to travel to the Mausoleum, 
you might even find a well on one of the higher crypt 
floors. Throw a penny or stone in there, and you’ll hear 
the plunk of it splashing into the water. See where I’m 
headed with this? Somewhere, somebody among the 
anziani thinks it’s a good idea to maybe keep the lanes 
of communication open. Why else would a portal to 
the Premascines’ lair have been built in the family’s 
own haven?
Rumors abound of other Premascines as well. One 
of the crazy Mexicans somebody Embraced to foster 
a New World connection many years ago has been 
talking about a cult of very old, very hostile Giovanni 
known as the Harbingers of Skulls. Word is that these 
“Harbingers” have all been driven mad by vengefulness 
or neglect, having originally struck out on their own 
without anyone knowing shit about it. Other rumors 
about the Harbingers include your standard battery of 
Kindred paranoia — that they’ve joined the Sabbat, that 
they’re the last of the “old clan” (which I guess is sup-
posed to mean that they’re Cappadocians and therefore 
bona fide Premascines), that they’re the tools of some 
Antediluvian (Hello? We know our Antediluvian), or 
that they’re ghosts given physical form. Whatever the 
case, they’re always angry as fuck. I haven’t heard much 
about them outside of South and Central America. 
That’s what leads me to believe that they’re a brood 
that followed the Kindred to the New World during 
the Age of Exploration, and subsequently vanished 
after losing contact. Still, if that was the case, they’d 
probably be on better terms with the Pisanob – the 
Mexican Giovanni — but that doesn’t seem to hold 
true. I have heard, however, that some very powerful 


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
25
Kindred that others claim are Harbingers have been 
active in the Far East and Asia Minor, even moving 
into Egypt at one point or another. Martino della Pas-
saglia’s sire was reportedly done in by one of the “old 
clan” or a Harbinger, depending upon who tells you the 
story, and Ambrogino’s been strange bedfellows with a 
Harbinger named Unre. This is another case not unlike 
the aquatic Venetian Premascines. They’re fucking old. 
They’re scary. They hate you just for being born. Stay 
away from them.
Sorry. I went off on a bit of a tangent there. Still, 
this was when the biggest schism in the clan took place, 
right at the family’s Embrace. Back when you could see 
the blood in Augustus’ eyes. Unlike most other clans’ 
intra-blood disputes, this one never really threatened to 
cripple the clan. Few enough of us existed at the time 
for this to be a huge ideological divide, and fewer still 
supported those radical fringes that advocated leaving 
the fold in the wake of the new potential becoming 
Kindred offered us.
Toward   
The Renaissance —  
in Two Forms
After the Becoming, Giovanni history once again 
grows quiet for a few hundred years. This was a period 
in which the family was simultaneously conducting 
two calculated risks. First, not long after the Giovanni 
became Kindred, the First Crusade occurred at the 
behest of Pope Urban II, followed by a subsequent 
series of other Crusades. This provided numerous op-
portunities for the Giovanni. I can honestly say that 
without the healthy dose of good-old-fashioned mortal 
hatred for his fellow man, the Giovanni wouldn’t be 
what we are tonight.
Ostensibly, the Crusades took place to turn back 
the tide of heathens, infidels, heretics, satans, Turks 
and other human detritus. Under the banner of “con-
verting” these mongrel elements, war was waged, and 
furiously at that.
How did this help the Giovanni?
First, despite my modern and apologetic opinion 
of the whole affair, the Crusades were a holy war. The 
Giovanni, always devout in their unique fashion, had 
evolved from their Roman religion to the universal 
Catholicism of Western Europe. Say what you want 
about the practices we undertake, but we know that 
we’re God’s people at the end of the night. This holy 
war was a chance to prove our righteousness to the 
world and to God Himself. Much like the Jovians’ 
ships brought Roman troops to northern Africa, the 
Giovanni’s ships carried platoons of holy knights to 
the Levant. Also, a few Giovanni fought on the front 
lines of the conflict itself. Cosimo Abruzzi, a ghoul 
who was Embraced on the field of battle, rode to 
Jerusalem with Baldwin of Edessa, who was crowned 
king. Cosimo (“the Faithful”) turned against Baldwin 
on that trip, knowing that Baldwin’s coronation would 
make Jerusalem a feudal state instead of Archbishop 
Daimbert of Pisa’s vision of Jerusalem as a church 
state. That’s an important point — regardless of some 
of the financial benefits the Giovanni reaped during 
the Crusades, their faith lay with the Church. Obvi-
ously, Archbishop Daimbert’s desires didn’t come to 
fruition and the Giovanni lent their support to the 
wrong player, but there’s no better outcome than failure 
for what becomes a martyred cause. Maybe your own 
failure (or, as in Cosimo’s case, death by burning) isn’t 
pragmatic for you, but it serves a great rallying point 
for those who believe in your cause.
Next, let’s be honest, the Giovanni made tre-
mendous profit from the Crusades. Armies require 
supplies, many of which were also provided by Giovanni 
merchants, and also shipped on those same Giovanni 
vessels that carried Crusaders to the Holy Land. The 
Giovanni also returned fallen pilgrims to their homes… 
for a price… and ferried communications back and 
forth between the Popes and the field marshals. Even 
the battlefields themselves offered financial gain for 
Giovanni scavengers: After battles, the blood-soaked 
fields were often found littered with severed fingers 
— the aftermath of those who cut the digits from the 
dead in order to more easily remove the rings from 
their lifeless hands. When the Crusades had run their 
course by the late 14th century (yes, other Crusades 
occurred after that, but by then the Giovanni had 
already made a place for themselves), the already 
appreciable Giovanni coffers had swelled to as much 
as 10 to 15 times their previous value. That doesn’t 
mean as much now, in the modern nights with their 
overnight Internet millionaires, but consider the value 
then. If I offered to increase your wealth by an order of 
fucking magnitude just because the Palestinians hate 
the Jews, would you pass up the offer?
Finally, and most important for the time, all 
the Giovanni help with the Crusades made for a 
sympathetic ally in Rome and the Vatican. I’m not 
going to suggest that we had the Church under our 
thumb — realpolitik doesn’t work like that and 
besides, the few Lasombra, Ventrue and Toreador 
crawling through the clergy would never have al-
lowed that to happen. Rather, the Pope gave his 
blessing to the Giovanni family. While our goals 
were different, they at least coincided on matters 
of faith and on the desire to keep the city-states 
free from unilateral feudal rule. When the three 


Clanbook: Giovanni
26
greatest wielders of political power were the rich, 
the aristocracy and the Church, you’re doing pretty 
well if you can put two in your corner.
Things Grow Ugly
It was right about this time, at the dawn of the Re-
naissance, that the Giovanni as the world now knows 
them emerged.
I think you know where I’m headed with this. With 
all the money the Crusades brought in, the Giovanni 
found themselves at a level of comfort far beyond may 
of the other merchant families, and, indeed, many 
European aristocrats. Rot set in, and quickly. The 
Giovanni had their every pleasure and whim catered 
to — so, to experience anything new, they had to turn 
to pastimes the rest of the world found… well, let’s 
just say that many Giovanni chose to do what most 
others wouldn’t dream of doing.
Like many nobles and wealthy families, the 
Giovanni had long been very selective about who 
they accepted into their family ranks. In many cases, 
cousins were married to each other to keep the blood 
from becoming diluted. As the rot spread through the 
family, however, “keeping the blood pure” became a 
mere front for whatever sexual taste struck the whim 
of a given Giovanni. Now, not all Giovanni are in-
cestuous — that would have withered the family to 
invalids and vegetables long ago. But many Giovanni 
find themselves craving the comforts of their fellows. 
Sisters have borne their brother’s children, uncles have 
spawned new lines of the family with their nieces, and 
mothers have doted unhealthfully on their little boys. 
In fact, putting aside the social impropriety of the whole 
fucking mess, most Giovanni afford a perverse status 
to those who don’t stray from the family lines. You’ll 
hear much talk of “single-blooded” Giovanni and their 
supposed superiority over the “double-blooded.” In fact, 
that’s why I agreed to sire you — you are the child of 
your mother and her father, and that makes you single-
blooded, and thus a “favored” member of the family, 
much to my own esteem.
The tastes of the Giovanni didn’t simply confine 
themselves to kissing cousins and the like from the 
nights of the Renaissance to now, though. In fact, 
the Giovanni had grown so jaded in a few short years 
that almost any ill behavior that you could conceive 
of had some enthusiast within the family ranks. Shit-
eaters, rapists, drug fiends, pedophiles, whack-job 
religious cultists, fags, dykes, horse-fuckers, fetishists, 
murderers, and deviants of all fucking stripes — you 
want ’em, you got ’em. Even nigrimancy itself under-
went its own Renaissance then, because not only 
were the spirits being dealt with, the necromancers 
thought it was fun to stick their dicks in the corpses 
or cock-ride dead men, which of course angered the 
spiriti that used to reside in those bodies, making 
them easier to compel.
The Khazar’s Diary
Toward the end of the 17th century, our knowledge 
of the Black Art had the potential to progress even 
further when Claudius Giovanni, Augustus’ right-hand 
Kindred, turned up references to something known 
as the Khazar’s Diary while studying in Belgrade. Ac-
cording to the handful of papers Claudius found, this 
diary contained information that would transform our 
knowledge of nigrimancy from ancestor worship and 
skull-fucking into something that we could use to change 
the world globally.
For a long time, the Giovanni had supported the 
idea that if they could only return to the nights when 
the spiriti could easily affect the world, their power 
would grow. It’s simple logic — the Giovanni are the 
only Kindred (well, the only Kindred of consequence) 
to practice the Black Art, and if the subjects of that art 
could universally increase in power, so would our own 
power increase by extension. This desire to tear down 
the sudario is known as the search for the Endless Night, 
whereby the dead and the living would share the same 
plane of existence or something. I’m not demeaning it; 
it’s just a bit esoteric for me. Believe me, if it was easier 
to force an invisible ghost into the conference rooms 
of investment firms, law partnerships, courtrooms, 
senator’s bedchambers and, well, anywhere “insider 
information” either occurs or is discussed, we’d be a 
hell of a lot more influential than we already are. In 
fact, we might not even need to hide from the world 
at all at that point….
But again, I’m wandering away from my topic.
Claudius turns this sheaf of notes over to Augustus, 
who tells him that he’s seen a copy of this crazy Jew’s 
diary at the Cappadocian temple in Turkey. The dutiful 
son, Claudius, goes to rifle the temple, which kind of 
coincides with something else that was going on that 
I’ll talk about in a minute. Anyway, Claudius and his 
recovery party sack the place, taking everything of value 
and burning the rest. Some speculation suggests that 
Claudius torched it out of frustration over not finding 
the diary. Other Giovanni think Claudius found the 
book, but didn’t want to turn it over to Augustus, so 
he faked the “absence” of the book and burned the 
temple so no one could go back and find it missing 
later. Still others suspect that Claudius was faithful, 
found the Khazar’s Diary and presented it to Augustus, 
who kept the whole thing quiet to give him time to 
study the thing.
Here’s where things get fucked up. The Capuchin 
shows up at the Mausoleum — he’s one of those periph-


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
27
eral “other” necromancers that have so little to offer 
us… usually. Nobody knows what the Capuchin’s deal 
is. He’s a powerful member of the Capuchin branch of 
the Franciscans, and part of the group connecting the 
Giovanni to the Church. Whether or not he’s Giovanni, 
I have no idea, but he’s got an offer. He’ll trade some of 
his influence in the Church for training in necromancy. 
Augustus takes the deal, seeing an opportunity to go 
through the Vatican’s enormous vault of confiscated 
books and documents and maybe get to the bottom of 
this Khazar’s Diary thing and push forward the quest 
for the Endless Night.
Plumbing the secret Vatican library, Augustus 
comes across a piece of Japheth Cappadocius’ journal 
that just happens to have a ghost bound to it. That’s 
common practice among necromancers and other 
sorcerers: binding spirits to their grimoires in order to 
keep prying eyes from discovering their secrets. Well, 
this puissant guardian wraith is nothing compared to 
Augustus’ necromantic abilities, so he overpowers the 
thing and forces it to tell him about anything Japheth 
kept secret, like, oh, the location of a Khazar’s Diary, 
or anything like that.
Sure, the wraith says. Japheth had hidden a powerful 
artifact at the Erciyes temple.
Oh, really, says Augustus. And what was that? The 
temple’s been destroyed, after all, so what could Claudius 
have possibly missed during his search?
The True Vessel, says the wraith.
Claudius met his Final Death one night later.
Eliminating the Threat
Augustus diablerized the founder of the Cappa-
docian clan in 1444, elevating himself to the Third 
Generation and splitting the Cappadocian clan into 
two distinct entities. On one side were the original 
Cappadocians, who were too fractious, superstitious 
and passive, frankly, to have seen Augustus’ treachery 
coming or to do anything about it. On the other side 
of the split was the Giovanni family, which had swelled 
to such mortal numbers as to be a significant force in 
Kindred Society.
Nature, of course, abhors the Kindred, and Claudius 
and Ambrogino convinced Augustus that to deal with 
the threat posed by the remaining Cappadocians, 
something had to be done. Within a few short decades 
after Clan Cappadocian became Clan Giovanni, the 
other clans had taken to calling the Necromancers 
“Devil Kindred,” not only for the diablerie of the 
Cappadocian founder, but for their less-than-savory 
pastimes. Rather than see the other Kindred unite 
against them, the Giovanni agreed to remain forever 
outside of Kindred affairs. Known as the Promise of 
1528, this agreement, I think, was an effort on the 
part of the Camarilla to shut down another Anarch 
Revolt before it could happen. By making the Giovanni 
essentially apolitical outsiders, they would isolate the 
Venetian family and its undead population from the 
other Kindred. While the Anarch Revolt grew around 
frustrated fledglings’ resentment of their elders, the 
“Devil Kindred problem” was, as the nascent Camarilla 
portrayed it, a clan war.
That’s one of the blackest stains on the so-called 
honor of the Camarilla — they pretend to be a genteel 
society, a quiet congregation of monsters too civilized 
to call themselves that. If you ever attend one of their 
parties or salons, and I’m sure you will, you’ll see them 
as possessed of a certain Johnsonian wit. Theirs is an 
elaborate culture, founded on rules, politeness, civility 
and grace. Theirs is also a society of snakes.
As it shook out, the Promise of 1528 was nothing 
short of the Camarilla’s tacit approval of the genocide 
of the Cappadocians. They couldn’t risk another fac-
tion’s formation, as they were dealing with a young and 
formative sect known as the Sabbat at that time. Also, 
the Giovanni posed threats to power that had been 
the traditional domains of the fucking aristocracy that 
formed the backbone of the Camarilla — the Ventrue 
found themselves butting heads with the Giovanni 
What Is the Endless Night?
The text of the Khazar’s Diary is rumored to 
contain a ritual that will allow the boundaries 
between the physical world and the Underworld 
to be erased. The ritual, according to those with 
knowledge, requires the souls of 100,000,000 de-
parted individuals to enact.
The Giovanni have numerous different plans 
to gather these souls. Necromancy is the most 
functional, but the Venetians also have the ability 
to plan in the long term — we don’t gather money 
just for the comfort of it. Yes, it’s nice to have a 
new Benz and a score of silk suits every season, but 
garnering wealth is also practical. Given enough 
money and influence, the Giovanni can crash 
the global economy. As nations crumble under 
Giovanni-applied embargoes and sanctions, chaos 
reigns. Nations starve. Riots rage. War breaks out. 
People die. One more soul added to the stockpile 
each time that happens.
Selfish? Sure — but we’d be stupid to play the 
Jyhad for anyone other than ourselves.
Needless to say, 100,000,000 souls is no small 
matter. Still, the Giovanni have forever to assemble 
their resources….
It’s going to be wonderful to have God as 
a neighbor.


Clanbook: Giovanni
28
take place at the touch of a button or through a 
fiber-optic network. The clan grows in numbers 
as well as wealth, and since the Age of Industry, 
neonates began to be assets rather than vanities. 
Because no other clan apart from the Tremere has 
a formal structure, childer of these clans tend to be 
luxuries for their sires. Ventrue Embrace protégés, 
Toreador Embrace whoever’s the “it” childe of the 
moment. The Nosferatu atone for their nastiness by 
picking people uglier than them to drag into their 
own personal hells.
The Giovanni, though, Embrace those with the 
vision to lead the clan toward the Endless Night. It’s a 
war often fought without guns, as new “soldiers” learned 
in the most current ways of the world. While we revere 
our elders, we also understand the Kindred state for 
what it is, which is very often stasis from the moment 
of the Embrace onward. Honestly, consider Augustus 
Giovanni. The guy was Embraced in the 15th century. 
Do you really think he even knows how to work a tele-
phone, much less corner global commodities markets 
by using his laptop to do day trading?
That’s what the other clans just don’t understand: 
Every Giovanni has a role. I’m not going to pretend 
that we’re a family without our treachery and prob-
lems. In the modern nights, in fact, I sometimes think 
we resemble a corporation more than a family. Sure, 
we’re related, but we fuck each other over if it does 
us some good. Hell, sometimes we literally fuck each 
other, if we think it’ll make us feel good or give us an 
edge over a rival who just happens to be part of the 
same branch of the family tree. In the end, though, 
we have a goal, which other clans either never had 
or lost along the way.
Remember when I said we’d win? That’s why. We 
not only know we’re playing the game, we’re using its 
own rules against it.
Expansion Into 
Other Families
Despite the misleading name of our clan, Giovanni 
Kindred are not all former members of the Giovanni 
mortal family. Of course, we’ve got no problem letting 
the idiots in the other clans believe that. 
In the thousand years we Giovanni have been 
Embracing Kindred, we’ve brought a number of 
other families into the fold — three major families, 
the Dunsirn, the Pisanob and the Milliners, and a 
handful of minor ones. Each of these families pos-
sessed something the clan wanted — and what the 
Giovanni want, we take, as you’re no doubt aware. 
You’d be surprised how easy it is to convince families 
soon after the Renaissance, the Toreador vied with the 
Giovanni for patronage of the arts during that time and 
even the Tremere ran into the Giovanni as the family 
spread across Europe and into their Vienna stronghold. 
If someone had to die in order to preserve the fragile 
Camarilla, the elders of that self-appointed sect would 
gladly let that someone bleed.
And bleed the Cappadocians did. Although it 
took us the better part of three centuries to do it, we 
finally managed to destroy every last one of the Cap-
padocians. Their time had passed; they were merely 
the step that brought the Giovanni to our inevitable 
fate, and once that role had been satisfied, we no 
longer needed them. Giovanni Kindred and mortals 
alike raided Cappadocian havens, drinking deeply of 
their blood and turning their servants out into the 
streets. From the Middle East to the expanses of the 
New World, Cappadocian s crumbled to dust beneath 
the fangs of the thorough Giovanni.
Now, of course I’m sure some managed to go to 
ground or hide. When I said “every last one of the 
Cappadocians,” I mean the ones who would have 
remained active. No doubt some went into torpor or 
sank into the earth. I’ve even heard persistent rumors 
of “the last Cappadocian!” (who usually turns out to 
be some unfortunate dink who dies after bringing such 
attention to himself) or broods that had escaped the 
living realm and fled to the Underworld. The end re-
sult, though, is dick. If they went to the Underworld, 
what the fuck are they doing for blood? If they’re in 
torpor, they’re not a threat. If they’re slumbering in 
the soil, maybe some archaeologist will dig them up 
and expose them to the sun. While some Cappado-
cians must have escaped the purge, all they did was 
postpone their fates, not avert them.
Centuries of Growth
In the aftermath of the Renaissance, the Giovanni 
had all but paved their way to being the most cohesive clan 
to face the future. Unlike the other clans, the Giovanni 
operate not only with a reverence for the elders, but also 
with a merit-based structure. Think of it as functional, 
planned obsolescence. Here, I’ll show you.
As the Renaissance drew to a close, the next 
important age for the Giovanni was the Age of In-
dustry. (Yes the Reformation was important, mainly 
due to our continued relationship with the Church. 
Still, that period was not one of marked economic 
difference from the Renaissance.) Thereafter, the 
modern nights became a time that’s proven even 
more lucrative than the Renaissance for us. To-
night, it’s easy to make money, and to do it quickly. 
Meetings with business partners nations away can 


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
29
to take orders from you when you can guarantee them 
shitloads of cash and “immortality” for their best and 
brightest in return. In the face of that, concerns about 
who’s in charge just seem to fade away. You think 
that’s hypocritical with what I said before? Sure it is. 
But hypocrisy is the greatest luxury, and if you can’t 
dwell in luxury, you may as well make your haven in 
a box in an alleyway.
A hundred million souls is a lot to gather. Look at 
these other families as the aid we’ve enlisted to do the 
dirty work.
The Dunsirn
The first of the major families the Giovanni 
coopted was the Dunsirn. It was the early 1700s, 
and the Giovanni were looking for a ticket to the 
growing markets of the New World. A clan of 
Scottish bankers who were all rich as Croesus, the 
Dunsirn came to Augustus’ attention because they 
held controlling interest on a number of shipping 
ventures destined for the English colonies in North 
America. Not only that but the Dunsirn had been 
lending money for centuries, and as a result, they 
had accumulated favors throughout the United 
Kingdom and Ireland.
Another less savory bit of information Augustus 
uncovered about them was that the Dunsirn were 
also cannibals. Of course, what may have been a deal 
breaker for anyone else was seen as a plus by Augustus, 
who holds a great appreciation for people who know 
how to keep a secret. 
It seems that, several hundred years before, one of 
the Dunsirn discovered a taste for human flesh. Under-
standably shocked, the family banished the cannibal 
from the estate and disowned him. Not giving a damn, 
he hied himself to the countryside, found himself a bride 
and raised his own little family of cannibals.
Eventually, these guys tired of squatting in peat 
bogs and voiced their displeasure to the Dunsirn family 
proper. Of course, by “voiced their displeasure,” I mean 
“killed and ate.” 
After disposing of the more genteel side of the 
family, these fellows took over the family business and 
have run it ever since. In that capacity, the Dunsirn 
serve as one of Clan Giovanni’s chief moneymakers. 
These guys invariably chose to tithe the Giovanni 
in money rather than souls, as few of the Dunsirn 
show an interest in learning Necromancy. Maybe 
its because they know they would be stuck talking 
to their former dinner. 
Also, for reasons we don’t understand, the fucking 
Lupines have shown an inordinate amount of interest 
in the family and have even invaded Dunsirn estates 
on two occasions we Giovanni are aware of. What their 


Clanbook: Giovanni
30
problem with the Dunsirn is, we got no idea. But then, 
who knows what the fuck those hairy bastardi are going 
to get bent out of shape about? Fuck ’em.
As an aside, you know what’s fucking creepy as all 
hell? Watching one of their mortal issue eat a sand-
wich. Once I went to Stirling to roll their tithe into 
American commodities and I met one of their little 
haggis-to-be. Little freak didn’t even say hello, just 
chomped away on that hard roll with mystery meat. 
It wasn’t pleasant, and I didn’t know whether or not 
to say anything, so I just shut up.
The Pisanob
In the early 16th century, Hernando Cortes set 
off on an expedition from the Spanish colony of 
Cuba to investigate tales of a rich Indian empire in 
Mexico. Being opportunists, a few Giovanni went 
along with Cortes. What they discovered was the 
Aztec Empire and its capital Tenochtitlan and the 
largest scale and most formalized use of necromancy 
the Giovanni had ever seen. The Giovanni were 
suitably impressed. The conquistadors, on the other 
hand, were horrified. So, the Spaniards did the only 
thing a group of more advanced God-fearing Chris-
tians could do when confronted with a culture they 
could not understand. They slaughtered everyone 
and stole their stuff. Stupid spics.
As I said though, the Giovanni who had traveled 
with Cortes were impressed with the necromantic 
skill evinced by the Aztec priests. With their own 
nigrimancy, the Kindred noticed trouble brewing in 
the Aztec part of the Underworld. It seems that a 
group of European spiriti had tagged along with Cortes’ 
expedition too. Pretty soon, these wraiths were joined 
by others, and eventually, these ignorant fucks took 
to enslaving the wraiths of the Aztecs, who were just 
as ill prepared to defend themselves as their living 
counterparts had been. These zealous wraiths were 
even more thorough than the conquistadors, destroying 
the souls of thousands upon thousands of native spiriti. 
Pretty soon, all the killing on both sides of the sudario 
became terrible enough to spark another maelstrom. 
The Giovanni had dealt with a similar situation a mere 
two centuries earlier and so were aware of what was 
happening. The Aztec priests were caught completely 
flat-footed, however.
Not wanting to see such talent at necromancy 
destroyed outright, the Giovanni at Tenochtitlan 
sent word home via spiriti asking permission to Em-
brace some of these heathen priests. Augustus and 
the anziani were intrigued and agreed. So, our boys 
approached the priests, who referred to themselves 
as pisanob (which is a Mayan term that translates 
as something like “ghosts of the dead that walk the 


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
31
earth”), with their offer and were escorted to their 
leader, a fellow known as Pochtli. Apparently, this 
proved to be copacetic with the man because Pochtli 
remains the unattractive head of the Pisanob branch 
of the Giovanni clan to this night. 
I used to wonder why the Giovanni who visited 
Tenochtitlan were so quick to Embrace the Pisanob. 
The more I thought about it though, I began to realize 
how much the history of the Aztecs mirrored that 
of the early Giovanni family. Both were groups of 
refugees who were forced by circumstances beyond 
their control to move to a new homeland. Both 
settled in a harsh, watery area and, through force 
of will, helped carve out a mighty city of grandiose 
architecture, crisscrossed by stately canals — the 
Giovanni in Venice, the Pisanob in Tenochtitlan. 
And both used the dark arts of nigrimancy to em-
power themselves, only to have that power denied 
when it was most needed by the effects of a hellish 
spirit-storm in the Underworld. 
The Milliners
These guys are great. I’ve never met a Giovanni… 
hell, I never met a damn Putanesca who could hold 
a grudge like Francis Milliner. 
It all started in Boston, Massachusetts, at the 
Columbia Trust Company in the early 20th century. 
It seems Francis was up for the presidency of the 
company when the current one, P.J. Kennedy (yes, of 
those Kennedys), retired. But lo and behold, nepotism 
Pochtli the Premascine?
Given the Pisanob founder’s unwholesome appearance and his predilection for calling forth sham-
bling zombu servants, it is not surprising that rumors of Pochtli being Cappadocian rather than Giovanni 
began to circulate. However, rumors aside, there is, in fact, strong evidence that Pochtli may indeed be one 
of the fallen line’s childer. 
First, none of the surviving Giovanni who followed Cortes’ conquistadors to Tenochtitlan claim to have 
sired Pochtli, though they readily admit to Embracing other Pisanob. In fact, if family records and Kindred 
memory serve, no fifth-generation Giovanni Kindred even visited the New World during the conquest of 
the Aztecs. (Given the reliability of travel on the high seas during the 16th century, no elder would deign to 
make a months-long ocean voyage without an extremely compelling reason.) 
Second, tales told by other Kindred of Mesoamerica speak of an ancient vampire who dwelt among the 
Aztecs with a brood of his childer and was worshiped as the god of war, Huitzilopochtli. Obviously, the simi-
larities between this Huitzilopochtli and the father of the Pisanob, Pochtli, are pronounced. However, these 
same Mesoamerican Kindred insist that Huitzilopochtli stalked among the Aztecs as far back as the 12th 
century, nearly 400 years prior to the first Giovanni setting foot in the New World. 
And finally, some Giovanni cite the issue of Pochtli’s corpse-like visage. Like the Giovanni’s Cappadocian 
predecessors, Pochtli appears to be an ambulatory corpse, with pale, parchment-dry skin stretched tight over 
prominent bones and a hideous face with lidless, sunken eyes, no nose and lips that have receded to expose 
a maw of sharp fangs. The only “Giovanni” to evince similar features are the Premascines or a suspicious few 
“atavisms of the Blood.”
As such, quite a lot of circumstantial evidence supports the theory that Pochtli is a survivor of 
Clan Cappadocian but no concrete proof exists. It’s possible that Pochtli’s sire met Final Death before 
he could return from the New World or that Pochtli’s sire still exists but is unwilling to take credit for 
creating a deformed wretch like the head of the Pisanob. It’s possible that Huitzilopochtli is another 
Kindred entirely or that he is merely a myth promulgated by Cainites who, by Giovanni standards, 
are little better than the savages they sprang from. Also, a number of cases have been documented in 
which Kindred have become physically malformed by the Embrace though their clan has no history of 
such deformity. Cainite vitae is a volatile substance whose effects on mortal physiology cannot always 
be predicted. Therefore, it’s possible that Pochtli is nothing more than a Giovanni Kindred with an 
unfortunate countenance, who is being slandered merely because he is different.
If the rumor and conjecture are true, though, it raises plenty of questions. Why was Pochtli allowed to 
survive, rather than destroyed with the rest of the clan? Is he creating more of his kind within his ancient 
temple? And are his recent “failures” in dealing with the Harbingers of Skulls indicative of some sinister 
secret agenda, where he perhaps plans to join with the Lazarenes in their efforts to eradicate the Giovanni?
Whatever the truth, no answers seem forthcoming. And the conjecture continues.


Clanbook: Giovanni
32
rears its ugly head, and young Mr. Milliner is passed 
over for promotion in favor of his much younger as-
sociate, Joe Kennedy. So Francis got screwed.
But our friend Milliner didn’t let it die there. Our 
Francis had a lot of friends among the old-money 
families of New England. He had also made connec-
tions among New York’s Italian immigrant population, 
the most significant being Andreas Giovanni, just 
off the boat from Venice. Using these connections, 
Milliner began to slowly chip away at the Kennedy 
financial base while the Kennedys themselves were 
busy playing politics. 
Not content merely to destroy the family’s financ-
es, Milliner went so far as to buy the Kennedy estate 
right out from under them (they still pay rent there 
to this night, so say the Milliners). By this time, Joe 
Senior was dead, but Milliner continued to take great 
pleasure in destroying the man’s legacy. Look at the 
facts. JFK and Robert Kennedy assassinated. Teddy’s 
Chappaquiddick debacle with Mary Jo Kopechne. 
David Kennedy’s drug overdose. William Kennedy 
Smith’s rape case. Michael’s ludicrous skiing mishap. 
Even JFK Junior’s recent “accidental” plane crash. Of 
course, there is absolutely no evidence tying Francis 
Milliner or his family to any of these mishaps, but 
the old man does have a shelf prominently display-
ing six skulls in his study on the Milliner estate, the 
last of which was placed there on July 16, 1999, only 
hours after JFK Junior’s plane was reported overdue 
at Martha’s Vineyard.
Let’s just say Francis’ demeanor, his ability to hate 
and hold a grudge, suitably impressed Augustus, and 
he had the Milliners brought into the fold in the mid-
’50s. They’ve since proven their worth, having been 
instrumental in the recent Giovanni takeover of Boston 
and had facilitated our behind-the-scenes operations for 
decades prior. Like the Scottish Dunsirn, the Milliners 
don’t care much for Necromancy, being more concerned 
with the business of making money.
The Minor Families
In our rise to mercantile dominance, first 
through Crusade profiteering and then with the 
explosive growth in trade experienced during the 
Renaissance, we Giovanni absorbed several lesser 
merchant families that had tried to “share in” on 
our domains. Rather than simply drive them into 
the ground, the Giovanni family brought these 
lesser merchant families into the fold, where they 
continue to make a small but significant contribu-
tion to Giovanni wealth and prosperity.
The absorption of the della Passaglia in the 1400s 
gave us our first inroad to trade in the Orient. We did 
a brisk trade in outdated firearms in exchange for silks, 
tea and, most lucrative of all, opium. More recently, 
the della Passaglia have spent the past quarter century 
studying the bizarre forms of Necromancy practiced by 
the Kindred of the East. It seems the death paradigm 
works differently there, and the della Passaglia are our 
resident experts on Asian thanatology.
The Ghiberti we acquired in the early 17th century 
when it became obvious how much money was just 
waiting to be made in the triangle trade between the 
United States, West Africa and the West Indies. Their 
contact with Africa’s indigenous people (which was 
more than just a business arrangement with some of 
these guys, if you know what I mean) also afforded the 
Ghiberti a unique opportunity to study these peoples’ 
concept of death, with their ideas about four-part 
souls and spiritual reincarnation. The Ghiberti even 
developed their own unique brand of Necromancy, the 
Cenotaph Path, which concerns itself with tracking 
down and binding wraiths — not too different from 
what these guys were doing to the living in Africa, if 
you ask me.
The Putanesca, whose very name translates as “of 
the whore,” are a Sicilian family of low-rent criminals 
and thugs we acquired in the 1660s to do the family’s 
dirty work. It may be the della Passaglia who import 
the opium, but you can bet it will be a Putanesca 
out on the street dealing smack. Growing out of the 
Sicilian Mafia, the Putanesca invariably live down to 
their goomba stereotype. The average Putanesca also 
has a temper that’d put a fucking Brujah to shame. 
Not the type to forgive and forget, these guys are 
real big on the concept of vendetta. If you’ve got 
one of these guys mad at you, it’s not long till the 
whole damn family is out trying to whack you. Their 
only redeeming value is that the Putanesca seem to 
thrive on shit work. I guess that’s why Augustus and 
the anziani keep them around.
Then there are the Rosselini. These guys have 
been around just about as long as the Giovanni and 
were quite proficient in necromancy before ever run-
ning into us, perhaps due to the same Roman roots. 
If the Cappadocians hadn’t run into us first, its quite 
possible that the Rosselini might have been singled 
out for the Embrace instead. As it is, we first came 
across these guys toward the end of the Renaissance, 
when a coven of them made the mistake of pissing 
off Claudius Giovanni while he was in Rome on fam-
ily business. Claudius tore the souls from the living 
bodies of the Rosselini, agreeing to return them only 
if their sorcerers swore an oath of fealty to him and 
the Giovanni clan. Given their options, the Rosselini 
naturally agreed. Since then, Kindred of the Rosselini 
branch have proven as talented at nigrimancy as the 
Giovanni proper. However, where a Giovanni will do 


Chapter One: A Familiar Conceit
33
the minimum he needs to compel a spirit to obey, a 
Rosselini will go over the top to commit an atrocity 
far out of proportion to what is required to assure a 
wraith’s compliance just because she gets off on it. As a 
result, Rosselini Necromancers tend to crash and burn 
spectacularly, often driving spiriti to become spettri in 
the process.
The Giovanni clan also harbors a number of 
lesser families related to the clan through marriage 
to one Giovanni or another. Of these, Augustus has 
his eyes on five for possible “acquisition.” These are 
the St. John (a cabal of English Masons), the Roth-
stein (Jewish-American Kabbalists with ties to Las 
Vegas), the Li Weng (a family of Chinese geomancers 
based in San Francisco’s Chinatown), the Koenig 
(German arms manufacturers and death cultists) and 
the Beryn (a family of Flemish merchants operating 
from Luxembourg with African influence like that 
of the Ghiberti). Until recently, there was a sixth 
such family, but the Mexico-based Hidalgo recently 
ran afoul of the Sabbat — the Harbingers of Skulls, 
according to the most nefarious rumors — and were 
wiped out.
Holiday in Cambodia
Not having had the opportunity to study the system-
atic slaughter exercised by Hitler and Stalin in Europe, 
the Necromancers of the della Passaglia family made a 
concerted effort to gain access to Cambodia in the 1970s 
during the height of Pol Pot’s killing fields. Paying off 
officials of the Khmer Rouge, the della Passaglia were, 
for the first time, afforded the chance to study death 
on such a mass scale. 
It was also during this period that the della Passaglia 
first met the matriarchs of Southeast Asia’s Golden 
Courts, the Penangallan, who are apparently the Ca-
thayans’ answer to the fleshcrafting Tzimisce. Since 
then, these Eastern Kindred have shown an interest 
in acquiring knowledge of Western Kindred from the 
della Passaglia in exchange for giving them free rein to 
collect souls, which considering the number of people 
dying in Cambodia with either unfinished business or 
in utter despair was inordinately high and thereby more 
likely to create spiriti or spettri, respectively, seemed a 
rather sweet deal. 
Strange Bedfellows
Due to the recent upheaval in the Shadow-
lands, the nigrimancy of the modern Giovanni has 
suffered to one degree or another among all practi-
tioners in the family. Because the mechanical aspect 
of this development plays such an important role in 
what the Giovanni have become (particularly over 
the past few years), Giovanni history continues in 
Chapter Two. The clan’s role in the modern nights 
is discussed at greater length therein.


Clanbook: Giovanni
34


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
35
ily, though widespread, is tightly knit. Everyone comes 
to a family Christmas party, damn it. If you receive an 
invitation to one of the other reunions — the ones 
they hold every April 4th — you better show up for 
fucking sure. 
Many of the Giovanni are mostly ignorant, but only 
the truly clueless are completely ignorant. Too many 
rumors circulate, even among the backward bumpkins 
who aren’t going to be shown the Horrible Truth in a 
million years. They may not know, but they suspect. 
So many whispers and overheard remarks and strange 
goings-on make the rounds that even the dullest needle 
in the pincushion is eventually going to stitch something 
together. They know that some people in the family 
get picked, and if you’re picked, you get money. You 
attend all the parties, even the secret ones. You always 
look good, you always know what’s going on, you always 
have a smug half-smile when you look at the ones who 
weren’t picked. 
Thus, even the Giovanni (and, to a lesser extent, 
the Milliners, Pisanob and Dunsirn) who don’t know 
Chapter Two:  
It Runs in  
the Family
Why should a man, whose blood is warm within, sit like his 
grandsire cut in alabaster?
— William Shakespeare, The Merchant of Venice, Act I, Scene I
Most Kindred sires choose who they Embrace. In 
the Camarilla, this is often a complicated matter of 
paying dues until one gets permission, then spending 
months, years — even decades — picking the perfect 
person to drag into eternity. In the Sabbat it can be a 
lot simpler. “Hey, he looks tough, let’s get him!” But 
those Sabbat who last more than a week or two tend to 
be those who were Embraced after some thought and 
deliberation. In neither case does either sect foster a 
perception of obligation. Neither group feels it owes 
the Embrace to any mortal.
Among the Giovanni, the criteria are completely 
different. Merit figures into it, but only within the narrow 
confines of family. A mortal may seem tremendously 
useful and worthy, but if she’s not one of the accepted 
mortal bloodlines, the odds of her becoming a Giovanni 
Kindred are slight indeed.
This doesn’t mean that every Giovanni cousin 
eventually suffers the Curse of Caine, regardless of 
merit. Far from it. Most don’t even rate the Proxy 
Kiss, the brutal period of being a ghoul. But the fam-


Clanbook: Giovanni
36
exactly what’s going on know that something is going 
on. Something powerful. Something they want, very 
much, to earn.
The Giovanni, then, are a family of overachiev-
ers. But it’s not as simple as just excelling in general. 
See, the ones who haven’t been picked often have a 
hard time knowing who has. If you don’t know for sure 
who made the cut, it’s hard to suss out why they did. So 
while one Giovanni concentrates on making the start-
ing soccer team, another turns down dates so he can 
practice the violin, and a third is just grade-grubbing 
as hard as she possibly can. They’re all gambling that 
their chosen field is the one that earns them the big 
reward. Whatever it is. 
In actuality, the Giovanni Embrace is just as com-
plicated as the Camarilla one — just in a different way. 
What is intensely personal and private in the Camarilla 
is often decided in a forum of Giovanni elders. Diego 
Giovanni’s grandchilde (and great-granddaughter) 
Gianmaria has wanted to bestow an Embrace for some 
time, but it’s not her decision. Diego and other members 
of the low-generation anziani will have a heavy stake 
in deciding who and when Gianmaria Embraces. She 
might suggest that one of her mortal children is worthy 
of the Embrace, but Diego might instead have her do 
a Milliner or Pisanob. She can propose all she wants: 
It’s her childe, after all. But the anziani can dispose, 
because when all is said and done, it’s their blood — 
two times over.
In other cases, some rogue may just decide to Em-
brace when he takes the whim. It’s happened before 
— some fuckhead drags his girlfriend into undeath; 
some fool Embraces a lawyer. It’s better to ask forgive-
ness than permission, right? Not among the Giovanni, 
friend. At least, not usually.
The elders consider numerous factors when it comes 
to deciding who Embraces whom. First and foremost, 
there’s generation. Higher generation vampires are 
more powerful. Therefore, the Giovanni would be the 
strongest clan if they just had elders like Diego do all 
the Embracing, right?
In theory, that’s true. In practice, that was exactly 
what the son of a bitch who accidentally founded the 
clan did with the ancestral Giovanni. As near as any-
one can tell, this Kindred figured, “If these mortals are 
powerful alone, how much more will they be able to do 
when augmented with my potent vitae?” The answer 
to that question was, obviously, that they were able to 
diablerize him and erase most of his brood. 
So the modern Giovanni are cautious: They know 
that every neonate finds out about Amaranth sooner 
or later, and they don’t want to make it any easier 
for amoral, uppity youngsters to start cannibalizing 
their ancestors. 
The ghouls with the Proxy Kiss are, of course, 
well aware that it’s better to receive the Embrace from 
someone like Diego than someone like Gianmaria 
(while they may not understand the complexities of 
generation, they’re well aware of the political edge that 
being close to an elder gives). Thus, they are constantly 
competing to prove their loyalty to the family and to 
individual vampires. Remember, the Giovanni are a 
driven family, and the Proxy Kiss goes to those who 
stand out of a field of overachievers. The most common 
way to do this, of course, is to accept a blood bond to an 
elder. Often, doing so is something of a slippery slope: 
The ghoul takes the first drink outside the Proxy Kiss 
from a different domitor because it seems like a good 
way to ingratiate herself. She’s now partially bound to 
two vampires, and thus inclined to think well of both 
of them. That makes her more likely to trust them to 
give her the second drink, which makes her so very 
trusting that the third drink only seems like common 
sense. Unless her other domitor stops her somewhere in 
the middle of this progression, she is likely to become 
completely bound. On the other hand, it’s not unheard of 
for someone partially bound to two (or more!) domitors 
to become the object of a sort of bidding war between 
them. Often, she ends up totally bound to one and the 
dire enemy of the other. Is it any surprise that deathless 
overachievers competing for the affections of the same 
ghoul may come to hate each other?
Given the family belief that the blood bond clouds 
your judgement, it ironically turns out that many of 
these bond-addled ghouls never earn the Embrace. 
It’s akin to the old baked goods proverb: Why buy the 
loaf when you can have the slices for free? Why reward 
someone with the Embrace if she’s perfectly devoted 
as a ghoul?
The inevitable bond created by the Proxy Kiss itself 
is another factor in the elders’ decision. They know that 
each neonate may well be bound to his original domitor, 
so they try to ensure that Giovanni who aren’t completely 
trustworthy (like, say, Paolo Sardenzo) never have their 
thralls Embraced. Furthermore, each elder surely wants 
to make sure that she (or one of her childer) is the one 
giving the Embrace to the most useful mortal cousins. 
Of course, the other anziani are all thinking the same 
thing, and if they can’t get the Embrace they want, 
they may gang up with other elders to make sure their 
rival doesn’t either — the opportunism in the family 
doesn’t stop after death, after all. Some very talented 
Giovanni ghouls have had their Embrace delayed for 
decades — not because nobody wanted them, but 
because too many anziani did. Because no lone elder 
can overcome the political coalition of the others, the 
ghoul sits on the shelf until he’s so devoted to multiple 
domitors that he’s no longer a great prize. 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
37
Once one looks past the political maze of blood 
bonds and the tactical labyrinth of generation, only 
then is a potential neonate evaluated as an individual. 
The criteria applied by the anziani differ from elder to 
elder, but often include…
Name — Hey, the Giovanni didn’t end up where 
they are tonight without healthy doses of nepotism. This 
means that the less-promising child of a noteworthy 
mortal father may enjoy preferential treatment. The 
Milliners and American Dunsirn have been known to 
call this “the Bush effect.” Or, if they’re on the other 
side of the political fence, the “the John-John effect.”
Talent — Sure, it’s not the only factor, but it’s still 
an important one. If you earn the Embrace, you do 
because you’re damn good at something.
Nature of talent — On the other hand, if the clan 
decides they need more asskickers, someone who’s placed 
in Spain’s national Greco-Roman wrestling champion-
ship may find himself Embraced before a truly brilliant 
stock investor — who can, after all, continue investing 
during the day.
Genealogy — It shouldn’t be a factor, but some 
elders still harbor a bit of a sentimental streak for the 
family. This would be more surprising in a Kindred who 
wasn’t raised from infancy to think the family is the 
most important thing in the world. Thus, a Giovanni 
is often more likely to ask the elder’s permission to 
Embrace one of the children she had as a mortal (or a 
grandchild, or great-grandchild). 
Gender — Four centuries ago, it was common 
knowledge that women were hysterical, inherently 
sinful, weak and good for little more than mopping, 
cooking and screwing. Of course, it was also common 
knowledge that the Earth was flat. Some of the anziani 
have overcome their now-anachronistic upbringing, 
but for most those old habits die hard. 
Anziani (Elders)
In some ways, the Giovanni anziani are like Kindred 
elders all over the world. They’re crafty. They’re pow-
erful. They’re usually bitter and resentful. And they’re 
paranoid the way only something with a “death-optional” 
existence can be.
Many of the anziani (as they’re respectfully called) 
reside in the Venice mansion — the fabled Mausoleum 
of the Giovanni. Several of them have left Venice 
in order to organize Giovanni activities worldwide, 
however. Accorri Giovanni, who is relatively young 
for an eighth-generation Kindred, has made his Haven 
in New York almost since the city’s founding. The 
Diego on Prophecy
The “red star.” “Thin bloods.” Myriad signs of the “final nights.”
To all this, I say: Bah!
I’ve seen all this before. Red stars have risen and set — comets in the Middle Ages, then Communist Russia — 
even Sputnik had some Kindred scholars gibbering and weeping with fear of the rising Old Ones. Yet no Old Ones 
rose, no Gehenna, only shamefaced scholars looking crestfallen and relieved at the same time.
It’s the same with the thin bloods. I knew a scholar and paranormal anatomist who believed that the Tenth Genera-
tion were the “thin bloods” of the prophecies, because after them it was impossible for Kindred to weaken any further, 
or some such. Another saw the foundation of the Camarilla as the completion of some line about “there will be no 
Embracing for these childer.” Similar rubbish.
I disdain prophecy because I have seen thousands of hysterical prophets — mortal, Kindred and other — pointing 
portentously to the predicted site of disaster, booming out, “Lo! Behold!” in great voices, only to have nothing material-
ize. Every century had its “Y2K” disappointment, believe me. 
More, though, I mistrust prophecy because I know that those messages have to come from somewhere, meaning 
they come from an intelligence. Although intelligence gives many gifts, it also creates its own expectations, its own 
false images, its own willful misinterpretations of the naked facts.
To put it another way: If I know what’s going to happen, what does it profit me to share that knowledge? Would 
I not be wiser to prepare and let the future strike my enemies unaware?
No, those givers of prophecy show their knowledge only because it gains them something to have their predictions 
believed. Specifically, once they are believed they become part of the intelligent expectations of the hearer, who then 
(willing or no) makes the prophecy more likely. Why do you think they’re all so vague? If I tell you, “You will fall 
down this staircase on April 8, 1921,” you will simply stay away from the stairway on that date and I’m proved a 
false prophet. But if I tell you “You will fall down a staircase,” well…. Now, every staircase you walk upon becomes 
a threat. Perhaps the prophecy festers in your head so much that you trip just to have it done with. Or perhaps it dis-
tracts you from the real threat, from me with the blackened stake at the foot of the stairs, and then when you realize 
the prophecy was false… well, it’s too late for you. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
38
notorious Ambrogino Giovanni travels throughout 
Europe, though if his actions are for his own benefit 
or that of the clan (or, most probably, some combina-
tion of both) no one can say for sure. Diego Giovanni 
is also known as quite the traveler, checking in on 
Giovanni activities in Africa and the Americas as 
often as once a decade. 
More often, the anziani make their will known less 
directly. In ages past, their wraithly servants scoured 
the globe, spying on the elders’ enemies no less than 
their allies and carrying messages of the elders’ will. 
In the modern nights, some are finally confident with 
telephones and televisions for unimportant matters. 
For issues of greater urgency or significance, they still 
prefer a personal messenger. After all, if they understand 
it correctly, just anybody could tap into the wires of a 
telephone. 
It is the elders, primarily, who are most interested 
in tearing down the Shroud, or sudario, and bringing 
on the Endless Night. However, their eagerness to 
unify the worlds of life and death is mitigated by their 
own innate caution. One doesn’t survive centuries as 
an object of fear and hatred of other Kindred by be-
ing hasty or obvious. Thus, the anziani are slow, but 
unstoppable, in their accumulation of the hundred 
million dead souls they need to realize their ambitions. 
Or they were.
In 1999, they had managed to scrape together almost 
twenty-eight million imprisoned souls — over a quarter 
of the way to the Endless Night! Better still, over half 
of those had been harvested in the last hundred years. A 
booming population made for more remaindered spirits 
even in good times, and two World Wars were definitely 
not good times. Many of the optimistic anziani were 
looking forward to reaching the halfway point within 
decades. Given the way technological mayhem was 
becoming more and more refined, it was mostly agreed 
that when fifty million souls had been claimed, it would 
be time for them to cross the sudario physically, crash 
the world economy, provoke a nuclear war and harvest 
the second half all at once.
Then the realm of the dead imploded. The Giovanni 
aren’t sure who exactly they want to blame for that. 
Some think it was a cabal of lunatic mortal necroman-
cers who revere Orpheus. Others blame a handful of 
flesh-eating Kindred cultists who fled to the East in the 
wake of the maelstrom. Still others say it was the spiriti 
themselves, having gotten their shit together enough to 
do something major for once (even if the overall effect 
screwed the spiriti more than anyone else). 
When the spirit-storm hit, it weakened the sudario, 
but more importantly it blasted through the pillaged souls 
of the Giovanni. The Giovanni had primarily designed 
their enclosures to keep their captured wraiths in. They 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
39
weren’t meant to protect those ghosts from external 
dangers. But the maelstrom hit the Giovanni’s five 
wraithly gulags all over the world (Boston, the Pisanob 
temple in Mexico, Cagliari on Sardinia, Marrakech in 
Morocco and, of course, Venice) and blasted them wide 
open. Many of the spirits inside were simply destroyed. 
A large number in Venice were immediately recaptured 
as they foolishly stuck around to avenge themselves on 
their captors. The depositories in the Americas had terse 
advance warning and were able to prepare for the storm 
somewhat better than those in Europe and Africa, but 
unavoidable losses still occurred. Worse, many of the 
spiriti that escaped have undergone the transformation 
to spettri and are determined to punish the Giovanni 
clan for their captivity. 
Now, the Giovanni clan is down to a fraction of 
their former ghostly resources — a tiny ratio of what 
they need for their ultimate plan. The Necromancers, 
of course, have staged a great deal of discussion about 
how to deal with this setback. 
No one is suggesting that the Giovanni abandon 
the Endless Night ritual — at least, no one is anymore. 
When the spirit monsoon hit, Augustus himself woke 
from a decades-long torpor and took a personal hand 
in the defense of the Mausoleum against its onetime 
captives. The first two anziani who suggested giving 
up in the face of storm served to slake his thirst, so the 
remaining elders don’t talk in terms of “whether” but 
rather “how.” 
Augustus himself has provided no leadership: 
As soon as the Mausoleum was secure, he set out to 
examine the wreckage of the Underworld and the 
roiling storm within personally. The anziani believe 
he’s crossed the sudario back into the mortal world, 
but they don’t know exactly where he is. A few of 
the most loyal, or most bound, are concerned, but 
many of the others moodily await his return. Much 
as they might like to seize control of the family from 
him, they’re confident that Augustus is unlikely to 
encounter anything in the world more dangerous and 
unpleasant than himself. 
Anziani Prudente (Cautious Elders)
The more cautious anziani admit that the mael-
strom came out of left field, but are quick to point out 
the storm clouds do have a silver lining. Sure, most of 
their enslaved resources are gone. But the sudario is now 
so thin that they may not need nearly as many souls to 
complete the ritual. Furthermore, so many spiriti have 
been blasted through the sudario that they seem to be 
yoked to otherwise mundane people, places and things. 
(See p. 57, “The Maelstrom,” for more about this.) These 
makeshift catene provide leverage with the wraiths now 
connected to them, and because one place or object 
may serve as an anchor for several (or, theoretically, 
dozens) of spirits, just locating and obtaining one could 
ensnare a harvest of ghosts that would take a year to 
accumulate in calmer times. 
Furthermore, the wreckage on the other side of the 
Shroud means no one’s minding the store. In ages past, 
the Giovanni had to show some circumspection when 
it came to seizing the more powerful spiriti out from 
Underworld, because you don’t come to be a powerful 
spirito there without allies guarding your back. Now, it’s 
every ghost for itself, and that means an organized group 
of Pisanob or Ghiberti can imprison large numbers of 
very strong spirits by working together and targeting 
them one at a time. 
The Necromancers aren’t the only ones taking 
advantage of anarchy in the realms of the dead. The 
Underworld organization that forbade wraiths from tak-
ing action in the world of the living (such as possessing 
mortals, becoming visible, throwing dishes around and 
pulling similar “Amityville Horror” stunts) seems to 
have been blown to smithereens. That means the ghost 
society’s equivalent of the Masquerade just went right 
down the toilet. So, not only are wraith Giovanni able 
to act with far less discretion or fear of reprisal on their 
side of the sudario, many other spiriti are being much 
more obvious as well. That makes it particularly easy 
to find them — especially if you’re a well-connected 
expert with centuries of experience.
Consequently, most of the Giovanni elders see the 
glass as half full. They bought, bribed and blackmailed 
their way into a number of businesses that previously 
weren’t worth the effort. Specifically, they initiated 
a hostile takeover of Kopagni Ergonomika in Europe 
and they’ve founded Dunsirn Ergonic Consultants 
in the U.S. They’ve also bought controlling interest 
in a number of small surveying firms throughout the 
Western world. 
These businesses provide two critical elements in 
the Giovanni quest to find these new “hot zones” of 
spettro and spirito infestation: Contacts and pretexts. 
Have people in your office building suddenly started 
complaining of weird noises, strange smells, unusual 
problems with the office equipment? (“Hey, the water 
cooler didn’t use to sound like it was screaming.”) Must 
be air trapped in the water pipes, or a fungus problem 
on the flip side of the drop ceiling, or mildly toxic re-
actant in the synthetic carpet. Better call in Kompagni 
Ergonomika. After all, they did a great job when the 
Grodschmidt Building had that weird stuff that looked 
like blood running down the walls.
If all goes well, the Giovanni connected with these 
businesses capture a passel of obnoxious ghosts and col-
lect a fee from the grateful mortals as well.


Clanbook: Giovanni
40
Not all the spiriti ejaculated from the hell 
storm stuck to places, of course: Some attached to 
people. But in many ways, that’s even easier. Sure, 
some people go to a priest when they start hearing 
disembodied voices or having visions of strangers 
in their homes. But (in the developed countries at 
least) they’re a lot more likely to go to a shrink, and 
the Giovanni have been involved in the health care 
industry since its infancy. Dope up the poor haunted 
fucks on some Zoloft, cage the ghosts and explain 
away the memories of the necromantic rituals as 
paranoia or hallucination. Hell, have a drink while 
you’re at it.
Anziani Appasionati (Eager Elders)
Other elders are less sanguine about the loss of 
centuries’ worth of effort. These elders — some of whom 
were Embraced by Augustus himself — accuse the other 
anziani of wanting to pursue the Endless Night more 
than they want to achieve it. While small in number, 
these anziani are very vocal when they can shake off 
the cold haze of torpor and very powerful.
The Anziani Appasionati are in favor of tracking 
down and acquiring newly haunted areas through the 
ruse of geological surveying or asbestos removal or 
whatever. But to these elders, that’s not nearly enough. 
The instant anchors help, but they’re not a solution, 
The Premascines
Every group tells stories. If you’re a Boy Scout, you might hear about the phantoms that haunt Uracca 
Mesa. If you’re a Mason, you might get an earful about King Solomon (or the Wandering Jew). If you’re 
a goodfella, you might hear about what some Fat Tony did to his punk son-in-law, back in the ’60s. If 
you’re in the Giovanni clan, you might hear the story about the Premascines.
Some of these stories are true, some are false, some started out true and got an encrustation of embellish-
ment that has almost obscured the accurate outline. 
The story goes like this: When Augustus Giovanni rose up against his sire, he wasn’t alone. Several 
of his family members had his back, either by being immediately present or by offering their aid in other 
ways. Of these co-conspirators, some (Twelve? Four? Six? Seven?) survived to the modern nights and are 
known as the Premascines. 
Seeing as the diablerie of whoever Augustus’ sire was, anyway, took place in 1444, the Premascines are 
old. The story also goes that they are very close to Caine — Fourth and Fifth Generation, probably. Because 
they were Embraced before the diablerie, they are also genuine members of the clan that came before us, if 
that distinction has much meaning. Some say they don’t suffer the Curse of Lamia, while others say they were 
cursed at the same time as Augustus. There’s also the claims that they have corpselike visages or prophetic 
visions. Or that they have all three curses. Not that it matters much, because (so the story goes) they’ve been 
hidden in the water under Venice for hundreds of years. When you’re a centuries-old waterlogged corpse, well, 
what does a little more pallor or pain mean to your victims? 
That does raise the interesting question of what these ancient monsters ingest to survive. Tourists dragged 
off the canals? Nasty, cold fish blood? Those are some theories. Some Giovanni suspect that the other anziani 
have a well in the depths of the loggia where they dump enough blood nightly to keep the Premascines sedate. 
It’s also been claimed that after centuries of studying Necromancy the Premascines learned to consume spirits 
of the dead and somehow transform them into something nourishing. 
Others say these old ones can no longer tolerate mortal blood, and need Kindred vitae to survive. Varia-
tions on this story are: The Premascines are fed Giovanni neonates who screw up, they devour members of 
others clans who make trouble in Venice, or the family Embraces luckless mortals for the sole purpose of 
feeding them to the elders.
If the Premascines are anything other than a story told to keep the neonates in line, they are genuinely 
old, terrifyingly powerful, and more familiar with Necromancy than the vainest ancilla is with her own self. 
What they are not, however, is a resource for the family. While they may have been fellows at one time, stay-
ing underwater for centuries and inspecting the mysteries of the afterlife firsthand are not the way to stay sane 
and in touch. If they exist, they are too alien in their feelings and values to have any but the most superficial 
discourse with a person or Kindred of the modern nights. 
If the Giovanni family has, as claimed, been keeping them fed and concealed, then it’s possible that they 
might in turn offer their assistance. For example, if the Giovanni needed to have a squadron of phantom fighter 
planes from World War I attack a site in the mortal world (or any part of the Underworld) the Premascines 
might oblige. Certainly, something has been protecting Venice from wrath of wraiths and spectres alike for 
generations — even through the current Underworld unrest. 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
41
not by half, because they’re temporary. Eventually all 
the available anchors will be harvested, or broken by 
exorcists, or the spiriti there will simply lose their fight 
against the storms and the spettri. 
No, if the Giovanni are going to achieve their 
destiny before the cursed Setites manage to rouse their 
dead founder (and the Giovanni anziani who know the 
most about the Setites all seem to be the most eager 
to take down the sudario), they need to do more than 
simply take advantage of a temporary situation. It’s not 
enough to simply bail out the boat: It’s also necessary 
to patch the hole.
In this case, the “hole” is the comparative lack of 
spiriti. To create more, mortals must die, in great num-
bers, preferably with a great deal of unfinished business. 
To this end, the anziani appasionati seek areas of 
violence, tension and unrest on a national scale — 
preferably in nations with atomic weapons. India and 
Pakistan seem particularly ripe, but to date Giovanni 
agents sent there to fan the spark into fire have been 
universally chased out by Cathayans jealous of “their 
turf,” or have vanished entirely, such as in the monsoon 
that racked Bangladesh. (In Pakistan, Andre della Pas-
saglia was dismembered and mailed back to Venice. On 
the wooden stake through his chest was a message in 
neat calligraphy: “We humbly request your recognition 
of our destiny. Ending the world is our job and will be 
done on our schedule.”) 
Similarly, China is a tough nut to crack. It would be 
an ideal tool for starting a massive war: It’s got a gigantic 
standing army, and (thanks to abortion, infanticide and 
a culture that exalts male offspring) far more unmarried 
men in their twenties and late teens than women for 
them to wed. Historically, that’s the recipe for a war of 
conquest. But again the Cathayans stand between the 
Giovanni and a ripe situation. Agents keep going into 
China, and sometimes they’re successful — after all, 
it’s a big country and the Kindred of the East can’t be 
everywhere — but they’re nowhere near amassing the 
influence they’d need to provoke a war. 
As for the more hospitable Western world, the 
U.S. is too fat, happy and TV-sedated to involve it-
self in anything of the scale the anxious elders desire. 
South America and Africa are both very promising, 
but only in the sense of having many small-scale 
actions — and no one there is going nuclear. The 
Giovanni are working harder than ever to do their 
part in the flow of cheap weapons into these regions, 
and the collapse of the Soviet Union has made that 
a lot simpler. But when it comes to actually moving 
fissionable material from the former USSR into the 
hands of someone extremist enough to use it… well, 


Clanbook: Giovanni
42
that’s a sticky wicket. First off, the Russians had a lot 
fewer nukes than they let on. By far, the majority of 
the weapons the CIA spotted were decoys. If the CIA 
figured it out, they kept quiet: It’s very possible, after 
all, to spy oneself right out of a job. 
The Russians do a piss-poor job of guarding the 
nuclear material they do have, even by mortal standards, 
but that’s why the UN and NATO (infested with those 
fucking Ventrue) are keeping a very close eye on what 
goes where.
A nuclear holocaust in Africa or South America 
is unlikely soon, then, but the Middle East is another 
matter. Israel’s got the bomb, and isn’t Egypt where 
all those damn Setites breed? Two birds with one 
stone would be very nice, but Israel — particularly 
Jerusalem — is thick not only with Kindred and 
Cathayans, but with other… things… of all descrip-
tions. Obviously, not every politician in the region is 
something’s relative, puppet or ward (“Would the Lupine 
delegate please leave the floor!”), but enough influence 
taints the area that the Giovanni are going to have to 
operate with great guile to get what they want. They’re 
currently negotiating with a group of renegade Lupines 
and a faction of old-style magicians from something 
called “the Celestial Tradition of Hermetic Orders.” 
The Lupines, contrary to the stereotype, seem to admire 
the “corruption” of the Giovanni, and the magi seem 
to think that if technology has enough repercussions, 
people will turn away from it and back to the old ways of 
magic. Obviously, werewolves and witches are stupider 
than Kindred.
Arrayed against the Giovanni and their sometime 
allies are a gang of werewolves who seem almost as 
knowledgeable about ghosts and the Underworld as the 
Giovanni themselves, and a bunch of vengeful occultist 
trash who are strangely resistant to the Gifts of Caine. 
Skulking around the edges of the conflict are the Setites, 
who appear to be enamored with the Giovanni’s twisted 
Lupine contacts, and the Cathayans who, it seems, just 
resent everyone.
The Honored Dead
Becoming undead, in any fashion, is very rare. 
Becoming a ghost because you want to is rarer still. On 
the other hand, six centuries is a long time, and the 
Giovanni are nothing if not intense about their goals. 
Consequently, more than a few Giovanni have become 
spiriti. A few are even spettri.
These allies on the other side are tremendously use-
ful for the Giovanni who still move in the living realm. 
Luring ghosts into ambush is the very least of it. They 
can also use their wraithly perceptions by daylight to 
spy on Giovanni enemies — without the Necromancer 
having to fear betrayal or insubordination… too much. 
As Giovanni spiriti age, their powers grow to the point 
that they can be a threat to any but the best protected 
of Kindred. 
Just as important is their influence on the other 
side. Giovanni spiriti tend to learn ghostly powers of 
spirit-shaping and wreaking supernatural havoc in the 
world of the living (Discipline equivalents for these spirit 
powers are Vicissitude and a combination of Movement 
of the Mind and Lure of Flames). The uses of apporta-
tion and ghost-flames are obvious, but it is for their 
ability to “fleshcraft” other wraiths that the Giovanni 
spiriti are most valued by their Kindred cousins. This 
is because such power gives them the ability to render 
other wraiths immobile, insensate — incapable of any 
action. Thus, the Giovanni clan secures its stockpile of 
souls for the Endless Night ritual. Spiriti who are tithed 
for the Endless Night are not used for standard charges 
of espionage and harassment: That puts them at risk 
of destruction or escape. Instead, they are twisted into 
paralysis or stored in their catene and put in one of the 
Giovanni sepulchres.
Of course, a Giovanni wraith’s association with its 
mortal cousins is a double-edged sword. The threat of 
necromantic revenge is a potent one, but working for 
menacing black magicians isn’t a great way to make 
friends — especially when the ghosts captured by the 
Giovanni are often simply never heard from again.
Aside from the hatred of their spirito peers, Giovanni 
wraiths also have to endure the condescension of their 
Kindred relatives. It’s nothing blatant or intentional, but 
most Giovanni inherently see spiriti as inferior beings, fit 
to be used, tormented and enslaved. Knowing that your 
dear grammy has become one causes no small amount 
of cognitive dissonance, as respect and affection go to 
war with ingrained contempt and callousness. Usually, 
the emotions reach a stalemate that is bearable, if not 
comfortable. 
When you’re the one who’s been transformed into 
a wraith, the emotional conflict is far more intense. 
The Global Giovanni
Not every member of the Giovanni clan is a 
member of the Giovanni family. The structure of the 
family trickled down into the “client families” who were 
brought into the Kindred fold, however. An elder is 
still an elder, but the Giovanni anziani trump all other 
Elders combined. Of course, this has been the source 
of no little friction between the families.…
The Pisanob
The Pisanob have had a very hard time of it. Al-
though most of their temple havens in the Mexican 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
43
hinterlands remain secure, many outlying Pisanob 
havens in Mexico have been compromised. Between 
unchecked rampages by the Sabbat and Underworld 
conflicts with the Harbingers of Skulls, the Pisanob 
were beleaguered even before the crippling mael-
strom in the spirit world. When half their phantom 
servants were destroyed in an instant, the Pisanob 
were finally vulnerable to the vengeance of spirits who 
had awaited a chance since before Columbus came 
to America. The only reason the temple of Pochtli 
has survived is that the maelstrom and its aftermath 
caught the Pisanob’s enemies as flat-footed as it did 
the Kindred themselves. The Harbingers of Skulls 
suffered the ghostly apocalypse at least as badly as 
the Central and South American Giovanni. As for 
other Pisanob, they’ve found themselves frequently 
targeted by a group of humans who claim to be driven 
by a higher power to reclaim the world. Being the 
lead dog in Mexico has gotten the Sabbat bitten 
on the ass by these hunters, while the few Mexican 
Camarilla vampires sit back smugly and congratulate 
one another on the protection of the Masquerade. 
Numerous Pisanob have met their ends at the hands of 
these mortal hunters, too, finding themselves caught 
between the warring sects or compromised to save 
another Kindred’s skin.
With supernatural Mexico largely in disarray, the 
organization of the family is a shambles. Individual Pi-
sanob are still comparatively safe and effective working 
as arms merchants, mercenaries or (if they’re traditional) 
hospital orderlies in the rest of South and Central 
America. But without the Mexican infrastructure, these 
Kindred are largely on their own. 
For some, that’s just as well: They’re happy to con-
tinue their activities without their elders looking over 
their shoulders and shaking them down for spiritual 
tribute. The central Giovanni, of course, are loath to 
let the Pisanob go on their merry way, but with travel 
in the ghostly realms really, really difficult, their best 
bet for putting the Pisanob back together is to rebuild 
what was ruined in Mexico.
Rumors run rampant between those Pisanob who 
are still in contact with one another. “Augustus is com-
ing here,” says one, “because he’s pissed at Pochtli and 
wants to drink his death personally.” “The Giovanni are 
going to call Pochtli to Venice. If he goes, they’ll kill 
him — assuming no one else nails him on the way. If 
he doesn’t go, they’ll turn the whole family out on its 
ear!” claims another. “No,” says a third. “They’re going 
to invite every Pisanob to an April 4th meeting at the 
temple for a massive counterstrike against everyone. 
They’ve got too much invested in us to abandon — 
but anyone who doesn’t show up for the Big Push gets 
hunted down and bound!”
All the unrest among the Pisanob is very unfortu-
nate, because one of Pochtli’s experiments has, at long 
last, paid off. The result is called (rather arrogantly) 
the Ritual of Pochtli, and it might just be the tool that 
the Pisanob need to turn things around — if they can 
survive long enough to teach it to enough of the family.
The Milliners
The Milliner family feels it has good reasons to be 
proud of itself. Unfortunately for them, the Giovanni 
family doesn’t seem to share those feelings. To com-
plicate matters for both, the Milliners know about the 
Giovanni’s reservations.
From the Milliner point of view they’ve been doing 
a bang-up job. They’ve not only held their own against 
both the Camarilla and the Sabbat in America, they’ve 
done so while flourishing on the fronts of financial and 
criminal influence. Who realized the new language of 
organized crime was not Italian but Russian? The Milli-
ners. Who persuaded the AMA that nationalized health 
care would be worse for their wallets than a doubling of 
greens fees on private golf courses? The Milliners. Who 
reaped enormous profits through investments in HMOs 
and privatized prisons, and also ensured such shoddy 
management and oversight that Giovanni clan members 
can feed in comfort and security? The Milliners. Who 
Three Views of the Endless Night
The Endless Night is when we take charge, man! 
People will be no different than ghosts, which means 
that you can feed off ’em till they die, and they’ll just 
come back in a month or two. We’ll be able to mindfuck 
ghosts and use necromancy on normal people, because 
they’ll all be the same thing. It’ll make that old Anarch 
Revolt look like Coney fucking Island.
— Cristobal Ghiberti, 13th Generation
The Endless Night will be more than a simple change 
of politics. It will be more, even, than the reunion of 
two sundered worlds. It will be the transformation of 
both. We, as Kindred, stand astride the worlds of life 
and death. But when those realms are reunited, might it 
not resolve the conflicts of our condition as well?
— Diego Giovanni, 6th Generation
Everything will finally be perfectly quiet. The mortal 
followers of Newton have grasped the Endless Night 
better than many in our own clan. They call it “the 
heat-death of the universe.” All movement, even unto 
the molecular level, will cease. There will be no more 
matter, no more energy, no more hope or fear, no more 
life or death, no more this or that. No more good. No 
more evil. No more conflict.
— The Capuchin


Clanbook: Giovanni
44
had three of America’s most effective witch-hunters 
jailed as “potential Y2K extremists”? The Milliners. 
Who set up a powerful Setite to take the fall when the 
hunters were sprung? Once again, the Milliners.
Shit, who’s the most prominent Kindred faction 
in Boston now, with fucking Camarilla recognition? The 
Giovanni. But who handed it over to them?
The Milliners. 
They’ve given the Giovanni money, contacts, 
muscle — not to mention a string of prisons and Urgent 
Care centers nationwide that might as well be named 
“McVampires.” Not bad for a family whose elder is at 
least two generations removed from the anziani and two 
centuries younger than their childer. 
Do the Giovanni notice? Doesn’t seem like it. No “nice 
job” out of Venice. No increased money, though you’d think 
they’d smarten up after the Milliners told them to buy into 
Cisco and MCI, and they didn’t, and if they had they’d 
have made back ten times their investment. Permission 
to Embrace cut back. Permission to diablerize Camarilla 
and Sabbat enemies denied for those not blood bound to 
a Giovanni. Francis Milliner publicly dressed down by 
Diego Giovanni, practically in front of the whole family.
The Milliners give and give and give to the 
Giovanni, and what do they get? The boss gets a promo-
tion. Remedial Necromancy lessons from Diego’s pet 
freak-childe. And demands for more souls to make up 
for what was lost during the Great Spirit Shake-out.
The Ritual of Pochtli  (Level Two Necromantic Ritual)
The actions of this ritual were actually developed in concert with several Ghiberti vampires who have been 
residing in Pochtli ’s temple for almost two decades. Because both families had a lengthy history of elaborate 
ceremonies, they felt more comfortable researching with one another than with the mainstream Giovanni. 
What they have developed is something of a metaritual. It cannot be cast by itself, but only in conjunction 
with another Necromantic ritual, or with the heavily ritualized use of a Necromantic path. 
The action of the ritual is this: Two or more Kindred necromancers restrain a mortal vessel and inflict 
incisions in the shape of blasphemous Egyptian hieroglyphs or Aztec symbols. They then drink from these 
injuries. Each participating Necromancer must make his own cut and drink from no other cut. 
Thereafter, the Necromantic power the Kindred seek to employ gains the benefit of all the participants’ 
knowledge. This ritual makes it possible for Necromancers to create truly fearsome feats of death-magic.
System: The player rolls to activate this ritual as normal — Intelligence + Occult, difficulty 5 (because 
it’s a Level Two ritual). If the roll succeeds, the Kindred who have participated in the ritual may work to-
gether on the path or ritual the Ritual of Pochtli is intended to assist, and players share successes. Note that 
the primary application of Necromancy requires its own roll, and that successes (and failures) garnered by 
the group are pooled.
If a Giovanni tries to use the Ritual of Pochtli with a path or ritual, she must have the know-how to use 
Necromancy in the Ghiberti or Pisanob style (see below). Additionally, all Kindred participating in the ritual 
must know the Ritual of Pochtli as well as the ritual or path power the group seeks to enact.
For example, three Pisanob attempt to use the Ritual of Pochtli to flay the soul from a Sabbat ghoul who 
has invaded their haven. Each player succeeds on her roll to use the Ritual of Pochtli, and then they collec-
tively attempt to use the Level Four Bone Path power, Soul Stealing. The first player gains three successes, the 
second gets two, and the last gets only one (which would have been two, but she rolled a 1). These combine 
for a total of six successes, reaping the ghoul’s soul from his body for a total of six hours.
The downside of this power is that a single player’s botch negates the successes of the entire group, result-
ing in a horrific failure for the ritual workers.
MET System: Every participant in the Ritual of Pochtli must know this ritual, know Pisanob or Ghiberti-
style Necromancy and must activate the same ritual or path immediately after its use. You should role-play out 
the screaming terror of carving a target with necromantic sigils that also become puckered sores to slake your 
thirst, so long as you can do so without alarming passersby! (And if you’re doing this sort of thing in public, 
then maybe you should think about getting a back room to do rituals away from spying eyes.)
Each individual who succeeds in the Ritual of Pochtli adds his successive power to the duration of the fol-
lowing Necromancy. If the group tries to perform Summon Soul, for instance, and three casters succeed in this 
ritual and then in the test for the power, the duration of the power is tripled (three questions/ turns). Only 
those who succeed in both the casting of this ritual and the successive power or ritual add to the final effect. 
You cannot combine more than five people in this ritual.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
45
The Dunsirn
The Giovanni’s northern European connection 
has also felt pressure from the main family. While 
Necromancy has traditionally been a very low Dunsirn 
priority, some Giovanni anziani are now insisting that 
all Dunsirn neonates learn its grim practice so that 
they can tithe to the Giovanni in souls, rather than 
the traditional Dunsirn fiscal substitute. In fact, rumors 
have come out of the Mausoleum that even those older 
Dunsirn who don’t know Necromancy may be “asked” 
to learn it — may, in fact, be commanded to Venice to 
learn it at the seat of the clan’s power.
The Scots are known as a proud culture, and 
growing rich as robber barons is never conducive 
to humility. Thus, the Dunsirn are bristling at 
the suggestion that they need to be taken back 
to school — and at the knees of the Giovanni, 
rather than from their own family, too! Keeping 
up with the developments in the European Union 
isn’t easy in the best of times, and especially not 
since the Camarilla and some group of sorcerers both 
have their fingers in the Euro up to the elbow. With 
the EU in its formative stages, the Dunsirn know it’s 
critical to get their hooks in now, at the foundation, 
so that everything that grows after will grow around 
them. But it’s at just this moment that the collapse 
of the Underworld has the Giovanni family getting 
uptight and dictatorial.
The Minor Families
The della Passaglia family is, as they say in 
China, “living in interesting times.” Inexplicably 
(to them), their decades of steadily chiseling their 
way into the confidence of the Cathayans have been 
hamstrung. Kuei-jin who were tolerant, if not exactly 
congenial, turned their noses up at the merchant 
family overnight. Requests for an explanation are 
frequently met with polite refusal. Demands are 
rebuffed — often violently. Slowly, the realiza-
tion is dawning that the Kuei-jin may have simply 
spent centuries studying western vampires to learn their 
weaknesses. Now that the Cathayans are striking in 
California (and, it’s rumored, in Kosovo), they have no 
further need for study. More chilling than the suspicion 
that they’ve been used are the rumors leaking out of the 
Cathayan Green Courts of Korea — that the Nagaraja 
aren’t completely destroyed after all.…
While the della Passaglia are being confused by 
fresh intrigues in the East, the lowly Putanesca family 
keeps on thriving, as it always has. Largely ignorant of 
necromancy, most are untroubled by the maelstrom. 
Focused in Europe and North America, they need 
not concern themselves with Kuei-jin wiles. They are 
concentrating, as always, on murder, vice and black-
mail. The influx of gangsters from Russia threw them 
for a loop briefly, but the red mafiyas appreciate the 
benefits of vitae as much as anyone. For the Putanesca, 
business is good.
Things are similarly going well for the Ghiberti 
family. While the African Necromancers suffered as 
greatly as anyone by the maelstrom, many of them 
had the good fortune to be in the middle of wide-
spread political violence and unrest. Thus, it was 
comparatively easy for them to acquire the blood they 
needed for Tempesta Scudi — and to rapidly heal any 
injuries inflicted by stray spettri and vengeful wraiths. 
Because they don’t have the Harbingers of Skulls to 
worry about (not like the Pisanob do, anyway), the 
Ghiberti have kept their lines of communication strong 
and have been able to use the Ritual of Pochtli to 
rapidly establish a strong presence in the chaos caused 
by the maelstrom.
Finally, the Rosselini have probably suffered 
the most of any of the minor families. It takes quite 
a bit to be considered “cruel” by the Giovanni, but 
the Rosselini managed it. More than one Giovanni 
secretly suspected that the reason the Rosselini 
wound up serving the Giovanni (and not the other 
way around) was philosophical more than tactical. 
The Giovanni pursue necromancy for the power to 
exalt the family. The Rosselini do it because they 
simply like it. It’s an end in itself, and consequently the 
Rosselini often try to do as much as they possibly can, 
as sadistically as possible, just to push the envelope. 
This approach is in direct contrast with the other 
necromancers, who generally try to get the most done 
with the least effort. In practical terms, this means the 
Rosselini go to extremes when summoning, compel-
ling and tormenting spirits. When the sudario went 
thin, summoning became easier and compelling grew 
harder — meaning that the Rosselini were suddenly 
conjuring more spirits than they could keep on the 
leash. Given their penchant for pissing off (and on) 
everything they summon, the Rosselini inadvertently 
turned themselves into a spectre mill. The spettri they 
created showed no gratitude at all. 
Unico Sangue e  
Doppio Sangue (Single 
Blood and Double Blood)
The notions of equality between genders and 
races are, to some Kindred, odd indeed. The older 
the Cainite, the more quaint and misguided (or, 
alternatively, radical and threatening) these ideas 
are likely to seem. 
The anziani of the Giovanni clan are very old 
indeed, and their prejudices are firmly set. Their first 


Clanbook: Giovanni
46
and strongest prejudice, of course, is that Giovanni 
blood is the best in the world. They don’t feel any need 
to give reasons for this belief: From their perspective, 
it’s just a fucking fact. Need proof? Okay, find another 
family that’s been as successful. Find another family 
with an active “Antediluvian” that got that way, not 
by being chosen, but by choosing to grab the future 
by the short hairs. Find another Kindred clan that’s 
got the coherence of a real family, instead of being a 
thrown-together batch of misfits, screwups, pity-fucks 
and impulse Embraces.
Found one yet? Didn’t think so. 
So the Giovanni are the best family and the best 
clan. That means that anyone who was both born and 
Embraced Giovanni has to be the cream of the crop, 
right? Not just born to greatness but chosen for it, too. 
They even have a phrase for it: unico sangue, “of single 
blood.” Those who are “pure” Giovanni naturally con-
sider themselves superior to those who were Embraced 
into the clan, but not born into the Giovanni family 
— the Putanesca, the Milliners and all the others who 
are doppio sangue (“double blooded”). The doppio sangue 
are still more meritorious than other Kindred, just as 
other vampires are better than wraithly slaves. But they 
still aren’t the best.
To the Giovanni, this is just common sense. They 
don’t talk about it, just like people don’t talk about 
why the sky is blue. That’s just the way it is, obviously.
Of course, the Pisanob, della Passaglia and Dunsirn 
don’t necessarily agree with all this crypto-eugenic ar-
rogance. No one’s going to call bullshit on a Giovanni 
elder for a subtle snub, but among themselves they roll 
their eyes and grumble.
That’s because this superiority isn’t just theoretical. 
Oh no. It may not be intentional or conscious, but the 
Giovanni act on their assumed superiority. If a project 
Infantilism
The natural course of life is this: You’re born, your parents rear you, you gradually become more indepen-
dent until get your own place, but you still probably go to your folks for advice and help when the chips are 
down. Eventually, they die. That’s when you’re really stuck being an adult: Not only because you’re living on 
your own and controlling your own life, but because you no longer have the option of running home to mama.
The Giovanni situation is anything but natural. They’re born and brought up, just like everyone else, but 
most are never forced into the full self-determination that comes from having no other choice. The Giovanni 
always have a ma and pa back home in Venice, maybe checking up on them, making sure they’re doing okay 
or (most important of all) making sure they’re doing the family proud.
Even if your folks weren’t Embraced, or if (heaven forfend) they suffered the Final Death, you still have 
a passel of anziani around. On the good side, they can bail your ass out of trouble. On the bad side, they pry 
and spy and meddle as much as they’re able. And a deathless Kindred with unreasonable sums of money, plus 
spirit servants, is very able indeed.
Most Giovanni just grit their teeth and try to be competent enough to earn their elders’ trust (imagine 
some bachelor pushing 30 who nods and says “I’ll think about it” whenever his mom stops by his apartment 
with some decorating tips). A few, though, are willing to leave all that hard thinking and planning to their 
elders. Maybe it’s someone who just got so worn down by incessant backstabbing and treachery that she’s 
given up. “Go ahead, do whatever you want. You will anyhow.” 
More disturbing, though, are those who relish having their decisions made for them. These infantilized 
Kindred are like spoiled brats who do whatever their elders say in return for praise, clan status and coddling. 
In extreme cases, you have a mama’s boy, seemingly 40 years old, talking baby talk to his sire as he whines 
and begs for another quarter mil to shore up his haven. 
Of course, you can’t have Daddy’s Little Girl without someone in the role of Daddy. The more sophisti-
cated and elder Kindred generally don’t fall into this trap: Sure, caring for your kids is a tough habit to break, 
but a century of being dead and killing others can have a corrosive effect on even the bonds of parent and 
child. The overprotective daddies and mamas are generally less than two hundred years old. Some of them 
know that they should let the fledglings spread their wings and fly (or plummet) on their own, but they just 
can’t commit to it. Others see nothing wrong with “caring deeply.”
This is a broad spectrum, of course. Most of the infantile or paternalistic Giovanni are very mild cases: 
A sire who’s a little overprotective, a childe who’s a bit dependent and indecisive. But the clan has also shel-
tered some real basket cases. The extreme infants tend to show little foresight and throw tantrums whenever 
thwarted, counting on their parent-figure to clean up the mess (which is generally a pretty good bet). As for 
the (s)mother types — just don’t mess with their “kids.” It’s hazardous to your health.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
47
good at memory erasure (or cooking up alien abduc-
tion stories) it’s not a perfect solution. The old smash 
’n’ suck approach still works, but Giovanni (usually 
neonates) who rely on it usually find out what the 
Masquerade is for — if the Camarilla doesn’t beat the 
cops to their door. 
One solution available to many Giovanni is to take 
blood from the dead, procedure that is fairly common 
in developed nations. Dead blood is usually thrown 
away in mortuaries once it’s drained to make room for 
embalming fluid. The same sort of thing happens in 
hospital operating rooms. 
This tactic works with remarkable, if unsavory, 
efficacy. It does have a few drawbacks, of course. For 
one thing, these are the sorts of places that intrepid 
vampire hunters and inquisitive sectarians watch 
closely. Furthermore, the Giovanni aren’t the only 
ones who’ve figured out that if you want blood, you 
go where the blood is. Nosferatu who don’t care for 
animal blood but who still don’t have what it takes 
to get the good stuff fresh often gravitate toward 
morgues and blood banks, where their hiding skills 
make it fairly simple to rummage through the bio-
hazard bins. 
The other drawback to the morgue approach 
is that it’s absolutely disgusting. It’s kind of like 
spending eternity eating cold, congealed, unfla-
vored gruel, when there’s a literal moving feast 
all around you. 
Another option is spending money to procure 
blood. The simplest way is to approach the saddest, 
most desperate crack whore you can find and say “I’m 
very rich and very, very kinky. I’ll pay you a hundred 
bucks for a pint of your blood.” Most Giovanni who 
do so drink the blood through a straw to make the 
“donor” less suspicious. A more discreet (but also more 
elaborate and cold-gruel-flavored) method is to set up 
a fake blood donation station. People come in, and 
the phlebotomist takes a few ounces “for testing.” A 
unit of blood is taken and the plasma is spun out — 
but a few more ounces are surreptitiously drained off 
before centrifuging. The nonplasma portion is banked, 
the patient leaves with 25 bucks in his pocket, the 
plasma is thrown away (or used, untested, in hospitals) 
and a vampire drinks the secretly collected ounces. 
About three donors are required to produce a single 
night’s worth of sustenance, but most victims never 
suspect a thing. 
Still, this has all the disadvantages of a funeral parlor 
operation, with higher overhead to boot. Rather than 
screw around with cops, health inspectors and suspi-
cious priests, many Giovanni have opted to go where 
life (and therefore blood) is cheap. 
is important, it doesn’t matter whether a Dunsirn is 
more informed or a Rosselini more experienced: Usu-
ally, an unico sangue Giovanni is entrusted with the 
ultimate authority. 
This bias causes no small amount of friction 
and displeasure for the doppio sangue, of course. From 
their point of view, they do all the hard work, while 
the Giovanni sit back and take the kudos. Not only 
that — the Giovanni are more willing to risk shedding 
double blood than they are their own pure, precious, 
unsullied single blood. So when a really dangerous 
shit job comes along, you know the guy in the thick 
of it probably isn’t going to be wearing those fancy 
G-crest cufflinks.
The doppio sangue put up with it almost all the 
time. After all, it’s not too bad — and if a bad decision 
is made, the Giovanni are (if anything) harder on their 
own flesh and blood, because it’s more disappointing 
when a single-blood Giovanni screws up than when 
some “lesser” member of the clan does so. And maybe 
they’ve started to buy the line themselves, on some 
subconscious level. After all, when all’s said and done, 
the Giovanni are the ones with the mystic blood to 
hand out. 
That’s a hard argument to refute. 
L’economia Sanguinosa  
(The Economy of Blood)
Starting, as they did, as a family of merchants, 
the Giovanni tend to regard just about everything in 
economic terms. Their fundamental axiom is “get it 
cheap, sell it dear.” While sometimes limiting, this 
approach does provide some insight into how the 
Giovanni regard the rich, red essence of vampiric 
existence — vitae.
If you ask Giovanni about the Curse of Lamia, 
many of them shrug and tell you that, in the long 
run, it’s not a curse at all. When a mortal starts 
juicing his jeans every time you sink in the fangs, 
it’s a lot easier to delude yourself that you’re not 
stealing life, or that the mortal is not your victim 
or that you’re not a monster. When they shriek and 
scream it’s inconvenient, but at least you don’t fall into 
the trap of thinking that what you’re doing is anything 
less than reprehensible.
Psycho-philosophizing aside, however, the lack 
of an ecstatic “Kiss” makes it more difficult to form 
a blood cult or find a willing herd. Sure, they may 
say they’re into it because of the “genuine experi-
ence of near-death intensity” or something, but the 
Giovanni know that only the real twists choose pure 
pain over pleasure. Using Dominate is an okay tactic 
for compelling obedience, but unless you’re really 


Clanbook: Giovanni
48
Necromancers have always been right at 
home on the battlefield. Spiriti are produced when 
people die with unfinished business and spettri show 
up when people die in utter despair and rage. Thus, 
it stands to reason that you see a higher proportion 
of both when people die young, fast and in incred-
ible pain. If that necromancer is also a Kindred, 
then the chance to kill wounded people in a loud, 
confusing situation where everyone’s distracted by 
flying shrapnel… well, that’s a very rich icing on a 
very tasty cake. 
The unico sangue Giovanni are less likely to 
involve themselves right down on the front any 
more. They have the money to get the goods they 
need in “civilized” countries where you can’t trade 
a phosphorous grenade on the street for a gram of 
coke and last year’s cell phone. Several of their 
“lesser” families have involved themselves in South 
American conflicts or the ever-present unrest of 
Africa, however. 
When the Pisanob aren’t working as hospital or-
derlies in order to feed themselves, they can often be 
found working for the Carabineros de Chile or serving 
as bodyguards for cocaine kingpins. Some of the bet-
ter class of Pisanob have availed themselves of CIA 
training to climb the ladder in Colombian paramilitary 
organizations. After all, the combination of Lamia’s 
Kiss and unholy Kindred strength makes for one hell 
of an effective interrogation. 
As for Africa, the Ghiberti family there has 
gradually been shifting its attention toward the 
region’s ever-present conflicts. From Sierra Leone 
to Burundi, Ghiberti mercenaries hire themselves 
out to create terror (or, if you prefer, “tactical op-
portunities”) and implement genocidal pogroms 
(“suppress civilian unrest”). Their prices are high, 
their results are undeniable, and their one require-
ment is that their methods go unexamined. 
Working as the clenched fist of a totalitarian 
government has many obvious advantages for an 
enterprising Kindred, not the least being that more 
blood gets shed than a thousand Kindred would know 
what to do with. The perception that it’s raining vitae 
and all you have to do is go out with a bucket also keeps 
intra-clan bickering to a minimum in free-fire zones. 
After all, when people are regularly “corrected” by the 
government, no Masquerade is needed to cover up a 
kidnapping. One reason the Camarilla and the Sabbat 
are so liberal in interpreting the Masquerade in many 
areas of Africa and South America is that there’s less 
need for it: The mortals are too busy butchering each 
other to notice a few more casualties from monsters 
who aren’t breathing. 
That said, drawbacks exist. For one thing, 
hardcore firearms (such as the aforementioned 
phosphorous grenades) are far easier to come by in 
Somalia than in the worst urban hellhole in the 
United States (for example). The Cold War pumped 
so much military aid into these developing nations 
that street urchins with undescended testicles and 
full-auto AK-47s abound. A vampire’s haven is much 
more likely to catch a stray mortar shell in Serbia 
than in, say, Shaker Heights. Furthermore, people in 
developing countries have endured a disproportionate 
share of Kindred attention for decades. So, when a 
guy in Burkina Faso says his wife got drained dry by 
a bloodsucker, the neighbors’ first instinct is to start 
combing the area at dawn — not to sling him in a 
loony bin. 
Tradizione (Tradition)
 The Proxy Kiss
The Giovanni have as many ways of giving the 
Proxy Kiss — the ceremonial feeding of Giovanni vitae 
to create a ghoul from a family member — as they have 
havens. Some Giovanni leaders set it up as a voluntary 
act in a “black mass” so that only the boldest — those 
willing to be damned for the family — become ghouls. 
Others simply slip it into some normal food to create 
a ghoul who becomes addicted, but who initially has 
no idea of the cause. This method is favored for useful 
mortals who might not agree — in the hypothetical 
case that they were informed beforehand. After all, 
it’s much easier to continue being a ghoul than it is to 
consciously decide to become one.
Some clothe the kiss in layers of farcical ceremony 
to throw off any inquisitive eyes and ears from outside 
the family. Some are simply very straightforward about 
what they’re doing.
Regardless of its presentation, the practice of the 
Proxy Kiss is beginning to erode. In fact, only in Italy 
is it followed with regular loyalty. The rest of Europe 
and Africa still give it with a fair degree of faithfulness, 
but it’s less and less popular in the Americas. Some 
of the Milliners have gone so far as to suggest that it 
should be considered an optional honor — and they 
stress optional. 
The reasons for this resistance are, of course, as po-
litical as they are practical. The unico sangue Giovanni 
use the Proxy Kiss because, as the primary givers of the 
vitae, it puts the most neonates under their spell — 
exactly why the double-bloods don’t like it. From their 
point of view, it’s just one more gesture of mistrust (or 
contempt) from the Venetians.
Bestowing the Proxy Kiss is considered almost as 
great an honor as receiving it, because it means the 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
49
family and clan trusts the donor enough to deliver a 
family member into her power. It has not escaped the 
notice of the double-bloods that many who are chosen 
to give the Proxy Kiss are unico sangue. 
Given the family suspicion of blood bonds of any 
sort, it seems that the Proxy Kiss tradition may soon be 
observed more in the breach. As the schism between 
the anziani prudente and the anziani appasionati widens, 
the Proxy Kiss is more and more likely to be considered 
noncompulsory. After all, the control provided by the 
bond was to the elders’ advantage only when they were 
completely united.
 April 4th
April 4th — the anniversary of the feast that ce-
mented Augustus’ decision to betray his sire and lead 
the clan into its own — is still celebrated every year 
by the Giovanni family. (The anniversary of the actual 
deed is also celebrated, but only in Venice, and only 
by the anziani in ceremonies of protection. Better safe 
than sorry, after all.) 
Members of the family throw lavish parties, with 
mortals and ghouls starting things in the afternoon and 
Kindred joining (of course) after the sun sets. These 
parties aren’t for everyone: Only those who know the 
truth about the Giovanni are invited — or those who 
are going to find out before the sun rises. 
April 4th is traditionally when new family 
members are proposed to the local anziani for the 
Proxy Kiss and for the Embrace. Elders may Embrace 
(or order an Embrace) as they see fit, any time of the 
year, but on April 4th those without Embrace privi-
leges are permitted to press suit for the Embrace of a 
favored mortal or ghoul. The rules for the Proxy Kiss 
are similarly strict. The Giovanni are actually more 
careful about bestowing the Proxy Kiss on family mem-
bers (who may be Embraced one night) than they are 
about creating nonfamily ghouls (who are unlikely to 
become Kindred). After all, it’s all right to have a mere 
ghoul nobody befuddled by blood bonds. It’s a more 
serious thing for someone who matters — someone 
in the family.
Once the decisions have been made, the refresh-
ments are brought out — usually at least one live 
victim for each elder present, along with extras for 
the newly Embraced (if any). By tradition, the newly 
created Kindred are given the first drinks, until they 
are sated. Then, individuals who bestow the Proxy 
Kiss drink. Then, any anziani present. Only when those 
three groups have finished are others allowed access to 
the victims. But at that point, on April 4th only, even 
the ghouls of the family are freely permitted to drink 
living blood alongside their betters, should they so 
desire. The ghouls are, however, expected to dispose 
of the bodies afterward. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
50
Tithing
Some members of the Giovanni clan — childer 
of ultraconservative sires, or very traditional Italian 
Kindred, for example — are expected to provide a 
tithe to their sires or the main family at least once 
a year. The nature and amount of this tithe depend 
on the individual Kindred, but the more authority 
you have, the more you’re expected to pony up “for 
the good of the family.”
Tithes may be provided in physical assets, or 
they are provided in souls. The currency provided 
is up to the donor. The Dunsirn generally give 
money. The Pisanob almost always tithe souls. The 
della Passaglia generally provide a combination. 
Neonates generally have their tithes “waived” 
(meaning, they are paid by their sires) until they 
have enough money or know enough Necromancy 
to make it worthwhile. Once they know enough 
to start imprisoning ghosts themselves, though, 
a tithe-bound Giovanni Kindred is expected to 
deliver three ghosts per year (or their monetary 
equivalent) to the closest family repository. 
To be considered “delivered,” of course, the ghost 
must be properly imprisoned, which requires the fourth 
rank of Necromancy. The imprisonment must be suf-
ficient to hold the ghost for at least a week (by which 
time Giovanni on the other side of the Shroud will 
have assured that it’s not going anywhere — see “The 
Honored Dead” on p. 42). 
Tithing is almost always optional. Most Giovanni 
are made aware of the practice soon after their 
Embrace, but only the harshest sire forces “such 
anachronism” upon her childer. The more respected 
a Giovanni is, the more she’s expected to tithe, of 
course, should she choose to do so. A neonate who 
tithes a single soul or a thousand dollars might be 
considered an infant who needs to be watched closely 
by his sire. A young but independent Giovanni may 
expected to tithe three souls. A Kindred with greater 
authority might be expected to send in five, or seven. 
As for the anziani, they don’t really tithe at all: They’re 
engaged in so much full time ghostnapping that the 
least of them routinely cages many times this num-
ber of spirits a year. Still, tithing is a practice best 
observed by those capable of doing it — too little is 
always too little and may be construed as insulting. 
After all, a “donation” of five dollars to the coffers 
of one of the richest, most prominent and secretive 
families in the world is hardly anything other than a 
snub. Much prestige can come from tithing, however, 
and most Giovanni past their first quarter century as 
Kindred fulfill the obligation.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
51
Ghostbusters  
It Fuckin’ Ain’t
Individuals with even the most rudimentary 
understanding of what nigrimancy is recognize the 
existence of another world. It wraps around this one 
like a sheet, or maybe permeates it like a gas, or maybe 
underlies it the way the sea sits under Venice. This 
other world is where dead people are. They can see 
out of it and watch you and me (though often not 
very clearly). Unless you start practicing the Black 
Art, you’ll never see it at all.
The reason you don’t see it is an immaterial bar-
rier between here and there. This barrier, the sudario, 
inhibits ghosts from influencing the mortal world. It’s 
not uniform. We’re still not sure exactly how it works, 
but the sudario definitely thins out when people around 
it are thinking creepy thoughts or if the setting is one 
that inclines people that way. Graveyard at midnight? 
Thin sudario. There it’s comparatively easy for ghosts to 
do their thing. Nude beach during spring break? There 
you get a sudario like lead plate. A strong necromancer 
can thin it out or thicken it artificially, but there’s a 
good reason for all the black robe/ red candle/ animal 
sacrifice mumbo jumbo that goes on with necromantic 
ritual. It sets the mood, you see. 
On the other side of the sudario is the Underworld. 
That’s the “top” level of this other world. It’s kind of 
a murky reflection of our world. When we look into 
the dead lands, that’s the part we see. That’s also the 
part from which they can look at us.
Underneath that, the Underworld has deeper 
levels that you can’t look at unless you actually go 
there. Don’t think about that too much. If you can’t 
get there on your own, you have no business going. A 
pack of fuckwit renegades called the Nagaraja made 
the mistake of bringing guests along, and, well, it just 
turned out very damn bad for them. 
Anyhow, that deeper level holds the ancient dead 
— the ones who’ve been around so long that they’ve 
lost all connection to the mortal world. They’re pretty 
tough. 
That deeper level — it’s called the Tempest — used 
to have some developed areas in it, huge cities of dead 
souls, all going about their business. These dead cities 
had a common social structure, all these scheming po-
litical factions, trade guilds, even a fucking train going 
between cities. But all that shit is gone, by and large.
The reason all that structure went kablooie is 
something called a maelstrom. The Tempest usu-
ally felt like the equivalent of a bad storm — winds 
strong enough to pick you up, blinding rain, black 
lightning… a bad scene. A maelstrom is a thousand 
times worse. It’s like having a tornado fighting with 
a thunderstorm inside a monsoon, only with rains of 
broken glass instead of water. I’m not entirely clear 
what started this maelstrom, but if any of the wraithly 
cities survived at all, they’re isolated enough that you 
don’t need to worry about them until the maelstrom 
calms down. 
A few necromancers suspect the presence of 
another level underneath the Tempest. Not many 
of us claim to have gone there — probably less than 
a few score, in the six centuries we’ve been around. 
Of those explorers, maybe one in 10 came back. Out 
of those, maybe two came back sane enough to stick 
to one story when describing what they saw. They 
both talked about “il dedalo,” which means “maze” 
or “labyrinth.” The dedalo may be the body of a huge 
creature, or a structure created to keep all of that 
death-energy caged, or a trap so that the servants of 
complete annihilation are stuck fighting one another 
instead of climbing up to the living world. Or it may 
An Italian Primer for 
Foul-Mouthed 
Necromancers
Anziano: A respectful term for a Giovanni elder. 
Bastardo: Bastard.
Bucaiòlo: Faggot.
Cagóne: Coward
Catene: Literally “chains” or fetters. Physical 
objects or places to which a wraith is metaphysically 
tied. Singular, catena.
Fata: Changeling. Plural, fate.
Gnòmo: Idiot.
Merdóso: A shitty person (literally).
Rovinato: “Broken.” Psychologically abused to 
the point that resistance is inconceivable. Old-world 
Giovanni usually refer only to ghosts with this term, 
but the younger generations use it on people and 
other Kindred as well.
Spettro: A deranged ghost, a spectre. Plural, spettri.
Spirito: A moderately together ghost, a wraith. 
Plural, spiriti.
Sudario: The immaterial barrier between the world 
of the living and the world of the dead; the Shroud.
Va’ a farti fottere!: Go fuck yourself! (This 
expression is often accompanied by putting your 
thumb between your teeth and then flicking it at 
the person.) 


Clanbook: Giovanni
52
just be where some of the nastiest things in the known 
universe reside because flayed skin and walls of living 
shit are their preferred décor. 
Anyhow, right now the situation in the lands of the 
dead is total chaos. That might seem nice for us, but it’s 
not. But to understand how screwed up the Underworld 
is, you need to meet the players. 
Spiriti (Wraiths)
When someone dies with unfinished business 
and is too damn stubborn to lie down and say, 
“Oh, well,” the result is a spirito. No one becomes a 
ghost just for funzies: They always, always have some 
compelling obsession strong enough to tie them to 
the mortal world.
I gotta think being a ghost is potentially the most 
frustrating existence in a world full of ’em. You have 
this thing you have to do, no matter what… but a lot 
of the time you don’t have any power to make it hap-
pen. I’ll give you an example. Suppose you’re a ghost 
who’s come back to, I don’t know, make sure your son 
finds his granddad’s heirloom watch or something. 
Some ghosts can’t just say “Yo, son — look under my 
mattress, next to all the porn.” Instead, they’re stuck, 
wanting to act but largely unable. They watch living 
people like we watch TV. You can yell at ’em all you 
want, but it’s not going to make Ross get back together 
with Rachel, you dig?
So one thing about ghosts is they’re all on a mission 
and feel very strongly about it. Remember that fact.
Also remember this one: Ghosts are “sentimental” 
in the same way that you and me “try to avoid the 
sun,” got it? All the stories about haunted paintings 
and swords and houses are based on fact. Ghosts 
are tied to physical, inanimate things (the objects 
are called catene in Italian, fetters in English). While 
that thing is safe and sound, the ghost can hide in it to 
regain strength. If that thing gets fucked, the ghost is 
equally fucked. This is doubly true in a maelstrom, but 
more about that later.
The third thing you need to know about wraiths 
is that they need emotions to survive. It’s like they’re 
freezing to death and certain emotions are the only 
fires that can warm ’em up. They flock to those “fires” 
the way you and I go after the Big Red Sweet. But each 
ghost has a specific frequency (or frequencies) that gets 
his goat. One guy might be tied to love. You’ll find him 
always hanging around weddings and maternity wards, 
he has a blast on Valentine’s day and gets pumped up 
at the local prom. Another guy might have sorrow as 
his bag, so he’s cruising funerals and lurking around 
oncology wards.
With these three facts in mind, you should be able 
to deal with any wraith you encounter. 
Among necromancers, we recognize two styles of 
dealing with the dead. I don’t mean styles of actually 
doing the magic: you can probably find a dozen styles 
for that. I mean you have two ways to deal with ghosts 
once you make contact. 
First off, you can use the soft way. You want a ghost 
to follow somebody for you? Buy him off. Maybe you 
purchase the house he haunts and make sure those kids 
in the Mystery Mobile stay far away. Maybe you help 
his son find the fucking watch. Maybe he gets off on 
gratitude, so you start leaving hundred dollar tips at 
truck stops so he can warm up easy. 
This works pretty well: There’s a reason ghosts 
spend so much effort trying to contact the living. It’s 
real convenient for them to have someone on this side 
of the sudario to get stuff they can’t pick up and talk 
Valentinism
During one of the last maelstroms, between the 
two World Wars, a loyal ghoul named Valentina 
della Passaglia died protecting her mistress, accord-
ing to the few Giovanni who privately believe in 
Valentinist ideas. Publicly, like the rest of the clan, 
they call her a traitor. They say she was driven insane 
by the Malkavians or owed favors to the Setites or 
was misled by the Lasombra or simply fucked in 
the head by whatever mind-smashing beings crawl 
the ghettos of the Underworld. Traditionally, any 
discussion of Valentina della Passaglia ends with 
threats, boasts of what a Kindred would do to her: 
“I’d bind her to her own femur and ass-fuck the 
Pope with it,” et cetera, et cetera.
This is because Valentina della Passaglia 
returned as a spirito and desperately warned her 
family that if they succeeded in calling the Endless 
Night, their power over spirits would be lost, not 
completed. Valentina insisted that destroying the 
sudario would leave the Giovanni at the mercy of 
the very spirits they’d been using and tormenting 
for centuries.
This idea was not popular, and it still isn’t. 
However, more than one Giovanni vampire 
privately believes (or fears) that she’s right. No 
one’s about to openly defy the anziani, but then 
again, the Giovanni have never been known for 
operating openly.
Valentina’s ghost hasn’t been seen around for 
decades. Maybe someone caught her and dealt with 
her. Maybe she was destroyed in a maelstrom or by 
one of the Underworld’s other perils. Or maybe 
she simply knows what her fate will be if she has 
contact with her family.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
53
to people who can’t hear them. The danger of this 
is that if a ghost accomplishes his mission, he stops 
being a ghost and you no longer have someone to do 
your dirty work. 
On the other hand, you can work ghosts like a 
mean motherfucker. If you have the skills you can 
simply pound the shit out of them. (Even though they 
don’t have a body to hit or shit to drop. Cool, huh?) 
But even with a minimal knowledge of the old Black 
Magic, you can make your will felt. Know your restless 
pally is attached to his wedding ring? Threaten to melt 
it down for fillings. He wants his son to go to college? 
Dominate the kid into smoking his first jay. Ghosts are 
just like people when it comes to responding to threats: 
Most of the time they cave if you handle it right. Just 
don’t go overboard, or (like people) they snap and come 
back at you with not much to lose. In fact, since ghosts 
are all emotion, they may snap sooner rather than later 
anyway. Also, don’t forget that they (unlike you) don’t 
sleep and have all the sunlit day to fuck you over if they 
decide you crossed the line.
The biggest danger of the hardcore approach is that 
a spirito who suffers too much frustration may transform 
into a spettro. Every ghost has that potential, and once 
they make the change they aren’t going to give a shit 
about the kid, the watch, the wedding ring or anything 
else. All they’re going to care about is putting your ass 
paid. So watch it, okay?
I find the best approach is a little soft and a little 
hard. Don’t help them complete their higher purpose, 
but promise you will. Help ’em get hooked on a feeling 
— that usually doesn’t cost you much, but it’s worth an 
awful lot to them. Find their catene for “safekeeping” 
but be ambiguous about it. Ideally, the ghost should see 
you as someone too powerful to challenge, who can do 
a lot for him if you’re happy — and can do a lot more 
to him if you’re pissed. Treat them the way your elders 
treat you and you’re probably on the right track. 
Systems: What Spiriti Can Do
Storytellers and players wishing to use restless spirits 
in their chronicles may use the following equivalent 
vampire Disciplines to model the powers of ghosts. 
This is in addition to the standard abilities on p. 282 
of Vampire: The Masquerade.
All spirits automatically have Heightened Senses. 
Other common powers are the equivalent of the lower 
levels of the Thaumaturgical path Movement of the 
Mind, Dementation, Vicissitude (only for transforming 
themselves or other ghosts, however) and Chimerstry, 
at levels the Storyteller deems appropriate to the par-
ticular wraith.
Uncommon powers include the Thaumaturgical path 
Lure of Flames and Dementation at Level Three or higher 


Clanbook: Giovanni
54
(some spiriti can possess Dementation 3 without learning 
the first two levels). High Auspex is also uncommon. 
Ghosts can also gain the fourth level of Dominate with-
out having the three previous levels, but this ability is 
rare as well. One uncommon power with no Discipline 
equivalent is known as embodiment: It allows the ghost 
to become physically solid. Doing so costs two points 
from the Passion pool, and lasts for one scene. 
The truly rare powers are high level (3+) Lure of 
Flames or Movement of the Mind. 
Spettri (Spectres) 
Spiriti are basically human souls with unfinished 
business. Spettri are something else altogether. They are 
destruction incarnate — not in the sense of blowing shit 
up, but in the sense of the fine, dry ash that’s left after 
everything’s blown up. They’re entropy plus intellect. 
They stand for absolute silence, oblivion, the cessation 
of all movement everywhere. 
The difference between spettri and spiriti isn’t 
superficial and philosophical like the Camarilla/ Sab-
bat thing. They are as different as a caterpillar and a 
butterfly. Unfortunately, on the surface it is very, very 
difficult to tell them apart. 
Spettri have their emotional gas stations like spiriti 
do, but it’s always something negative, destructive — 
something that tears down without building up. They 
are single-minded: Their ultimate goal is always to 
rip things apart, to wear down anything that’s been 
built, to erase, dissolve and forget. Reduce everything 
to the absolute nothing they embody. Yeah, it’s pretty 
fucked-up shit.
It’s possible to do the whole pimp slap “I’m your 
daddy now, bitch” routine on a spettro, but don’t expect 
the long-term obedience you can squeeze out of a spirito. 
You may think you’ve got one broke to saddle, but if 
you do, it’s probably fooling you. They can be clever. 
They can anticipate and innovate — these aren’t just 
the howling ghost equivalent of a mad-dog Gangrel. 
They’re even capable of building and creating things 
if they think that in the long run that will help them 
eradicate. You can compel spettri for short times with 
Necromancy, but you can’t make them psychological 
slaves. I’ve never broken one. The Premascines, maybe 
they have. Augustus… probably. But if he has, he ain’t 
talking about it. 
Understand that spettri have been sucked down and 
consumed by entities of unimaginable power — things 
that aren’t human and never were. These beings… the 
spiriti equivalent of ancient Kindred… never existed in 
a sense you or I would understand. They’re the opposite 
of existence. The only things they have in common with 
“being” are will, intelligence and power. Lots of power.
I know, it doesn’t seem to make much sense. Just 
believe me, they’re down there in il dedalo, okay? Lots 
of people don’t believe in vampires, either. 
Spirit Slaves
A Giovanni with the Spirit Slaves Back-
ground (see p. XX) starts play with one or more 
spirits already doing her bidding. The number of 
spirits and their power depend on how many dots 
the character has in the Background. 
Each individual spirit costs one dot. Wraiths’ 
skills and attributes are built using the rules for 
neonate vampires, but with no additional Disci-
plines (except as described below), Backgrounds 
or freebie points. Each starts with a Passion Pool of 
5. Every spirit automatically has Auspex 1 and one 
dot in another common power. Spending another 
Background dot on a spirit can give it an uncom-
mon power (or one common power at uncommon 
levels). Spending two dots on a spirit can give it 
rare levels of power. 
Example: Brent chooses to have three dots in the 
Spirit Slaves Background. That means he could have 
three spirits doing his bidding, each with Auspex 1 and 
one other common power. Alternatively, he could choose 
to have two servants — a weak one and one who also 
possesses an uncommon power. Finally, he could choose 
to have a single servant with a rare power, or with two 
uncommon powers. 
Which One’s Better?
Many neophyte Necromancers wonder 
which variety of ghost makes for a better servant: 
The reasonable (but sometimes wishy-washy) 
spirito or the powerful (but hard to control) spettro? 
The answer depends on circumstances. Machiavel-
lian types tend to use both — spettri for thug-work 
and spiriti for more delicate tasks. Kindred without 
the patience for all that plotting and manipula-
tion prefer spiriti who can simply be bullied into 
obedience. The very few Necromancers who feel 
sympathy for the dead tend to prefer spiriti as well: 
After all, they’re much better company.
In terms of power, a newly dead spettro is prob-
ably more dangerous than a newly dead spiriti, both 
to its summoner and to her enemies. A spirito that 
survives for decades can become powerful indeed, 
however, whereas very few spettro seem to last more 
than five years before being torn apart by the very 
negation they serve. Needless to say, a spirito that’s 
been around for a hundred years is a lot harder to 
compel by force.…


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
55
Spettri have been engulfed and remade by these 
ghostly archfiends. They’ve been eaten whole and shat 
out changed by embodied nonexistence. Do you really 
think there’s anything you can do to put a scare in one?
One other thing you should know about spettri is 
that they’re in constant contact with one another. It’s 
like every spettro is hooked up to all the other spettri 
on cell phones 24 hours a day. So if one’s in trouble, 
the others may show up to save his ass… or to fuck 
him in the ass. What, you thought the embodiments 
of entropy cooperate?
Am I saying you should never contact or deal with 
spettri? Oh, certainly not. They’re the active principle 
of destruction. We have lots of people we’d like erased. 
They feed off terror. We terrify by feeding. Between us 
and them, I see a lot of opportunities for a kind of “your 
peanut butter and my chocolate” synergy, see? Just don’t 
forget that with a spettro, it’s always using you as much 
as you’re using it. 
Systems: What Spettri Can Do
As creatures of destruction, it’s more common for 
spettri to have powers that duplicate the Thaumaturgy 
Paths Movement of the Mind and Lure of Flames than 
similar spirito powers. Because spettri are the antithesis 
of existence, however, it’s harder for them to operate 
in the world of the living: All efforts made by them to 
influence the mortal world are at +1 difficulty. They 
also commonly possess a highly limited form of Pres-
ence. Instead of making themselves more attractive, 
however, they are only able to make actions that feed 
their passions more attractive — they make themselves 
more horrible, albeit compellingly so.
Otherwise, spettri have the same power profile as 
spiriti, but the Passion Pool for spettri is 7. Due to their 
rarity, however, buying a spettro with the Spirit Slaves 
background costs an additional point.
The Risen
The bad news is, the Risen can kick your ass. The 
worse news is, there’s a lot more of ’em around in the 
modern nights than there use to be. 
A Risen is halfway between a spettro and a spirito, 
and pissed enough to claw right through its coffin. Like 
spiriti, they are goal-oriented. If you’re stupid or unlucky, 
you might find yourself standing between one and its 
goal. If you’re really unlucky, you might be its goal. If 
so, nice knowing ya. 
Some of ’em don’t handle sticking their souls back 
in a rotted brain very well, and those are the stupid, aim-
less, most common type of Risen, like the zombu some 
Necromancers can animate. The rare ones are just as 
smart as they were in life. Those are the real trouble boys. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
56
Worst of all, standard Necromancy doesn’t work 
on them nearly as well. The Bone Path has some ef-
fect, but nothing spectacular unless you really know 
what you’re doing. The standard compulsion shtick 
does not work at all. 
If you’re real nice to Diego, or his buddy Paolo, they 
might lend you a devil stick or teach you some rituals 
that can help a little. But frankly, if you have a problem 
with the walking dead, you need a lot of help. 
Shambler
This is a mostly brainless walking, rotting corpse 
with a one track mind, such as a zombu created through 
Necromancy or a dull-witted ghost animating a dead 
body. It’s capable only of fairly simple actions. Since the 
spirit-storm began, shamblers have even been popping 
up in groups of three to five — and sometimes many, 
many more. 
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 6, 
Charisma 0, Manipulation 0, Appearance 0, Perception 
2, Intelligence 1, Wits 1
Abilities: Brawl 2, Intimidation 5
Willpower: 4	
Passion Pool: 1, if any
Equivalent Disciplines: Fortitude 3
Note that mental Disciplines work on only the 
most aware of these creatures. Most shamblers are 
unaffected by mental Disciplines — or, indeed, any 
mental coercion — at all. Shamblers do not suffer any 
penalties due to wounds.
MET Statistics: nine Physical Traits, zero Social 
Traits, four Mental Traits. Brawl, Intimidation x3. Equiva-
lent of Fortitude Disciplines Endurance, Mettle, Resilience. 
Immune to Dementation, Dominate and Presence, as well 
as Serpentis: Eyes of the Serpent and Auspex: Telepathy. 
Shamblers have a normal health level track but do not 
suffer any penalties due to wounds.
True Risen
These are individuals with unshakeable goals — 
often complex ones requiring planning and many steps. 
They are not tolerant of anyone who gets in their way.
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4, 
Charisma 2, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2, Perception 
3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Abilities: Academics 1, Alertness 3, Brawl 2, Drive 
1, Empathy 2, Intimidation 3, Investigation 2, Melee 
2, Stealth 2, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 3
Willpower: 5	
Passion Pool: 8
Equivalent Disciplines: Obfuscate 2, Celerity 2, Po-
tence 2, Fortitude 2. Risen have 10 health levels and can 
heal a level of damage per turn by spending a Passion point. 
They suffer no dice-pool penalties from wounds, unless 
those wounds are aggravated, in which case, they begin to 
suffer penalties at their fourth health level of damage. In 
other words, assume that in the case of aggravated damage, 
a true Risen has an additional three Bruised health levels.
MET Statistics: See Oblivion for live-action stats 
of Risen.
Using Necromancy on the Risen
The only Necromantic path that has any effect on the Risen is the Bone Path. Using Tremens allows 
the necromancer to inhibit the Risen’s actions: For each success rolled using Tremens, the Risen loses one 
success off its next action. 
Apprentice’s Brooms is more effective, as this power overlays the Risen’s command of its own body with 
a separate set of impulses. The Risen’s will is primary, but when it’s not consciously directing its limbs, they 
fall back on the necromancer’s orders. In practical terms, any Risen affected by Apprentice’s Brooms loses 
one die from every dice pool until the end of the scene. 
The other Bone Path powers that have any effect on Risen are Soul Stealing and Daemonic Possession. 
Soul Stealing rips the Risen’s soul from the body and sends the spirit portion back to the Underworld. Risen 
can resist Soul Stealing like a mortal victim, and they can return if the Kindred isn’t smart enough to destroy 
the vacated corpse immediately. 
Daemonic Possession puts another soul in conflict with the body’s possessor — a conflict fought in the body 
that literally tears it apart. The attacking player rolls Intelligence + Occult against a difficulty of 6. For each 
success rolled, the Risen takes a level of aggravated damage that is soakable if the Risen has the equivalent 
of Fortitude. In no event, however, can a new soul take control of the Risen’s body.
MET Necromancy and Risen: A necromancer can affect Risen with Bone Necromancy only with a suc-
cessful Social Challenge. Using Tremens causes the Risen to suffer a one-Trait resolution penalty on its next 
action. Using Apprentice’s Brooms causes the Risen to suffer a one-Trait bidding penalty on its next action (it 
must risk an additional Trait). Soul Stealing functions normally, sending the Risen’s soul back to the Under-
world. Daemonic Possession causes one health level of aggravated damage each time it’s successfully invoked 
against the Risen in question.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
57
The Maelstrom
Up until very recently, the Underworld was predict-
able — at least, it was in its broad outlines. You had the 
spiriti in the Shadowlands, or their cities in the depths 
beyond the Shroud. You had the spettri in the dedalo, 
the “sea” of the Underworld, and sometimes screwing 
around in the Shadowlands as well. It was pretty stable. 
We had contacts on all the levels, though a lot more in 
the Shadowlands than in the dedalo, natch. Deals were 
made. Things got done.
Now, all that’s turned to shit. No one seems real 
sure what happened. I’ve heard that the spettri had been 
massing for an all-out assault on the dead cities since 
the end of World War II. I’ve heard that Bangladeshi 
death-o-rama had hardcore mystic repercussions that 
simultaneously crowded the Underworld with fresh 
spettri and started the mother of all storms. I’ve even 
heard that the ghost of a nuke got used on the ghost of 
a city, and that the explosion blew apart pretty much 
everything the spiriti have been building since time 
began. It doesn’t really matter.
What matters is, the End Times are here. If this 
most recent storm is anything like the last two we saw 
(one for each World War), it’s gonna be around until 
the end of the world.…
One thing it’s done is weaken the sudario, the 
barrier between our world and theirs. Sounds great, 
doesn’t it? Should be easier for the ghosties to show 
up and do their stuff. Should be easier to punch ’em 
around, too — right?
Well, half right. It’s sure easier to pull them in. But 
it’s a damn sight harder to control them. I guess that 
working in our world is usually a real chore for spiriti, 
and the effort of just being here made them weaker and 
easier to control. Now that the sudario is thinner, they 
can expend more of their effort and concentration on 
telling us to fuck off. Or maybe it’s just Darwin in action: 
The ghosts who can keep it together in a maelstrom 
are the tough bastards who always were harder to deal 
with — but who usually stayed away from us.
The danger of the storm makes catene more im-
portant. Their anchors to the living world are like our 
havens — that’s where spiriti go to rest up after getting 
their asses kicked. Naturally, having a shelter like that 
is crucial when the weather is killing bad. Take hold of a 
spirit’s catene and you’ve got a real threat over its head. 
Destroy it and that ghost’s gonna be hurting. 
The other weird-ass thing about the maelstrom is 
that a bunch of spirits have apparently been blasted 
right into our world, willy-nilly, all over the globe. 
That didn’t happen before — which kind of supports 
the theory that the maelstrom started on the other side 
this time, instead of being a reflection of what happened 
in the living world. Apparently what happens is, these 
spirits are thrown clear out of the Shadowlands and 
kind of glom on to whatever (or whoever) they hit first 
on this side of the divide. Sometimes a person, place or 
thing will find a pack of ghosts attached to itself. These 
aren’t spirits with a connection from life: It’s not like 
French nobles lurking around the guillotine or soldiers 
haunting Gettysburg. It’s more like some teeny-bopper 
with mall hair wakes up one day and there’s two ghosts 
from fuckin’ Namibia attached to her who are going 
to be powerfully screwed if something bad happens to 
her. It doesn’t even have to be a person: We bought a 
gas station in New Zealand that had at least 20 spiriti 
suddenly latched onto it. 
The ghosts who got blasted back through tend to 
be the newly dead, so they’re weak. If you can find one 
of these multiple fetters — Veronique calls them “buf-
fets” — you’re in gravy if you handle it right: It’s your 
magic ticket to scared, naïve ghosts who’ll do anything to 
protect it. On the other hand, that “anything” includes 
messing with you if they decide you’re providing more 
danger to their fetter than you’re preventing. 
As for actually going through the sudario, that’s 
easier to do now, but also a whole lot stupider. The lands 
of the dead were always pretty damn dangerous, even 
when things were comparatively calm. Now they’re a 
war zone, and not in the good “lots of dying soldiers to 
feed on” way, but the bad “lots of things can kill you 
and want to” way. 
Naturally, these sudden changes took us by surprise. 
I personally know of at least five of us who were on the 
other side when the shit hit the fan. None have come 
back, and I don’t expect that they will. I know another 
dozen of us who were taken by surprise when their rites 
started calling more ghosts who were harder to control. 
That cost us another five good people, and it’s going 
to take a while for poor Nicola to get back to normal.
It was a whole lot worse for our servants and allies 
on the other side. I’d guess that a flat half of them are 
just permanently gone. Of the spiriti we retained, many 
of them transformed into spettri after the trauma, so 
they aren’t even trustworthy anymore. On top of all 
that, a lot of our old “associates” on the other side are 
taking advantage of the weak sudario to even up some 
old scores. So watch your back.
One piece of good news (kind of) is that none of 
the other Kindred clans seem to have figured out that 
our legions of ghost servants got trashed overnight. In 
fact, in some cities where the Shroud got particularly 
thin, the local Kindred think it’s something we did and 
that we’re more powerful now. As far as I’m concerned, 
they can keep thinking that as long as they want. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
58
The maelstrom is mostly a crisis, don’t fool yourself 
about that. But it’s also an opportunity. Calling ghosts 
is easier, even if controlling them is harder. That just 
means you have to be more of a politician and less of 
a strongman. The Sabbat and Camarilla and the rest 
of them may think that we just did something huge 
that brought all these new ghosts into the world. If 
you play them right, they’ll fear you and keep away. If 
you play them wrong, they’ll fear you and try to burn 
you into ash. 
Best of luck.
The Maelstrom  
and Nigrimancy
The weakening of the barrier between the realms 
of mortals and the dead has powerful implications 
for practitioners of Necromancy. Some tasks are 
easier. Others are more dangerous. Some are both 
at the same time. 
Storytellers who wish to incorporate the changes 
in Necromancy wrought by the maelstrom can use the 
following guidelines. On the other hand, it’s also pos-
sible that individual Storytellers may err on the side 
of simplicity and just use the rules in the main book, 
unchanged. That’s fine too. But for those who want 
them, here are the changes, path by path.
The Sepulchre Path
•• Summon Soul
All difficulties for this power decrease by one. On 
a botch, however, it’s quite likely that multiple spec-
tres show up. Even on a simple failure, a spectre may 
well notice and make trouble for the character, at the 
Storyteller’s discretion. Use this last situation sparingly, 
however, Storytellers, for if every failure attracted the 
attention of spectres, few Giovanni would survive to 
practice their Black Arts.
MET System: You gain a one-Trait resolution bonus 
on challenges to Summon Soul. If you fail a challenge 
with this power, though, and the difficulty is double your 
current Social Trait total, you can be overbid; if you lose 
the overbid as well, several spectres show up (“several” 
is defined by the Storyteller’s mood at the time).
••• Compel Soul 
A player’s dice pool to compel the soul after sum-
moning decreases by one die.
MET System: All Compel Soul tests suffer a one-
Trait resolution penalty.
The Bone Path
•• Apprentice’s Brooms
On a botch, the necromancer has accidentally 
created a shambler, as described on p. 56. It attacks 
the necromancer immediately. If it can’t reach her, it 
starts trashing anything it can get its rotting hands on.
MET System: Make a simple test (win or tie) 
each time you invoke Apprentice’s Brooms (retest with 
Occult or Thanatology). If you lose (and lose the retest, 
if any), the created creature is a shambler not under 
your compulsion.
••• Shambling Hordes
On a botch, the shambling hordes attack the nec-
romancer instead of following orders.
MET System: Make a simple test (win or tie) 
each time you invoke Shambling Hordes (retest with 
Occult or Thanatology). If you lose (and lose the retest, 
if any), the created creature is a shambler not under 
your compulsion.
•••• Soul Stealing
Due to the interference of the maelstrom, the 
difficulty for the Kindred making the contested 
Willpower roll rises to 7, while the victim’s difficulty 
stays at 6. If the victim’s soul is evicted, however, its 
player must make a Willpower roll against difficulty 
8 for every hour that it’s exiled from its body. Each 
failed roll results in a permanent derangement once 
it returns to its body. If the victim is a player’s char-
acter, the Storyteller may opt to allow her to spend 
a point of permanent Willpower to avoid acquiring 
new derangements.
MET System: The target of Soul Stealing gains a 
one-Trait resolution bonus against the necromancer, so 
be careful unless you have a surfeit of Social Traits. For 
each hour/ scene that a soul is forced from its body, it 
must expend one Willpower Trait or else it gains one 
permanent derangement. Once it runs out of normal 
Willpower Traits (if it bothers to resist), it loses one 
permanent Willpower Trait (although this event pre-
vents acquisition of any derangements).
The Ash Path
All Ash Path powers are made with one die 
fewer in the necromancer’s dice pool. The only 
exception is Shroud Mastery.
MET System: Whenever you make a test that 
pierces the Shroud in some way with the first three 
levels of the Ash Path (such as trying to spot something 
with Shroudsight or punching some ghost while using 
Dead Hand), you suffer a one-Trait resolution penalty. 
The costs for the powers themselves remain unchanged.
•••• Ex Nihilo
The maelstrom’s intensity ebbs and flows. During a 
calm period, when other Shadowlands inhabitants suffer 
moderate damage from the flying debris, a Kindred Ex 
Nihilo takes no damage. But as the maelstrom becomes 
more powerful, it’s quite likely to deal out a few dice 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
59
of lethal (or aggravated, at the Storyteller’s discretion) 
damage each scene if the vampire isn’t in a protected 
structure (these little peaks of power happen maybe once 
or twice each night everywhere). This kind of increase in 
intensity can climb all the way up the scale to 18 dice of 
lethal damage per scene as the Storyteller dictates the 
intensity of the storm, but that’s rare and only at sites of 
incredible focus. The odds are strongly against that kind 
of intensity at the vampire’s location. Still, it can happen.
MET System: Generally, while traveling Ex Nihilo 
you suffer one level of lethal damage per hour/ scene, 
unless you win or tie a Simple Test.
The Vitreous Path
Rolls for the first three powers of the Vitreous Path 
(Eyes of the Dead, Hour of Death and Soul Judgment) 
are made at +1 difficulty. The two latter powers (Breath 
of Thanatos and Soul Feasting) have their difficulty 
lowered by 1.
Spirit Manipulation (Thaumaturgy)
Powers of this path are unaffected. The demons of 
the spirit world seem to be radically different from the 
ghosts lingering beyond the Shroud.
Everyone But  
Us Is Stupid
It’s sad, but true. You’d think that with a dozen other 
clans and fuck-only-knows-how-many more bloodlines, at 
least someone in there would have a clue. No such luck. 
Some of these other stiffs have a chance of putting the 
whole “I’m not dead and parts of it aren’t so bad” thing 
together, but most of them miss it by a mile. Don’t get me 
wrong — I’d love to see the sun again and not worry about 
catching fire every time my daughter lights a cigarette — but 
Caine gave his awful childer a few gifts to ease their end-
less nights of damnation. Since most of these Licks would 
rather pity-fuck themselves forever, though, and even the 
ones who realize the potential waste it setting each other 
on fire and cutting off their sires’ heads, it’s almost moot.
It’s lonely, sitting at the Giovanni table. But it’s a 
tolerable loneliness.
The Camarilla
Accorri says:
Don’t get me wrong: I like the Camarilla guys, in 
the way that you like the guy who puts gas in your car 
and is always trying to talk to you about business oppor-
tunities. They’re a little annoying, and they’re unclear 
on the whole “vampire” concept (“Ooooh, don’t call 
us that! We’re Kindred!”), but other than that the only 
thing I got against ’em is their success. 
I suppose “Let’s not get caught!” is simple enough 
that even the Malkavians can follow the bouncing ball. 
If they weren’t such pansies about leaving feedbags alive, 
I might be tempted to go through the hazing process and 
learn the secret handshake (or whatever you do to get in 
the club). Still, I’m glad I don’t have to spend my nights 
bending knee to some creaky “prince” who spends his 
time bitching about what shitty ideas democracy and 
free enterprise are. Welcome to the New Age, Vlad.
They’ve been going toe to toe with the Sabbat lately, 
which is fine with me. Let the two big yacht clubs fight. 
Every time they go for guts and gats, more domains go 
up for grabs. The real winner in this conflict is going to 
be the independent clan that can make the most gains 
while the Big Two pound on each other. If it wasn’t for 
the maelstrom, that would be us, goddamn it.
Diego says:
As galling as their bullying and pretensions 
are in the short term, the Camarilla exists for one 
purpose only, and it is reactionary. They exist to 
conceal the existence of our kind, and many young 
Giovanni are shocked at how easy it is to quiet the 
Camarilla by holding them to their own Masquerade 
standards. And ultimately, the Masquerade is a good 
idea — for now.
To placate the Camarilla, it is only necessary to 
play to their preconceptions and to expose those facets 
of our operations with which they are familiar. They 
know that we have a certain facility with the dead. 
They know that we are great financiers. They do not, 
however, know of our plans for the Endless Night. If 
they knew, they would rise as one and wipe us off the 
face of the Earth. 
We must concentrate on maintaining the fiction 
that money is our goal, and Necromancy only our means 
to that end. They understand avarice. If they think we 
are mere moneygrubbers, they will assume that we are 
as devoted to maintaining the status quo as they are. In 
that case, they will be content to play their silly political 
games against us, they will sneer and smirk when they 
count coup in some inane, transitory business deal, and 
they will be taken wholly by surprise when the sudario 
falls and they become our servants.
The Sabbat
Accorri says:
All I can say is… what the hell? Didn’t these guys 
get enough kinky BDSM bullshit when they still had 
working penises?
Okay, sure, there’s all that noise about stopping 
Antediluvians (who no one’s seen since Abraham 
was a pup) and about getting in touch with True 
Vampire Nature and how it’s a real fellowship, blah 


Clanbook: Giovanni
60
blah blah. If you shut your ears and check what they 
do, it boils down to, one, everyone blood bonds every-
one else and two, mortals get the Terminal Puncture. 
Oh, and three: Let’s break stuff. I’m cool with number 
two, but I draw the line at adoring everyone I hang 
around with. If I work with someone, I don’t wanna 
have mandatory affection too. 
Diego says:
In its own way, the Sabbat is as stuffy and conserva-
tive as the Camarilla. But where the Camarilla looks 
down at the teeming masses of humanity and whispers 
“What if they rise up and crush us?” the Sabbat looks 
fearfully up toward the Antediluvian blood gods and 
whispers “What if they fall upon us?” 
Just as I appreciate the Camarilla’s admirable job of 
keeping the mortals from becoming troublesome, I also 
appreciate the Sabbat’s efforts to prevent more Ravnos 
unpleasantness. Like the Democrats and Republicans of 
America, the Camarilla and the Sabbat agree on almost 
everything and are therefore constantly casting about 
for issues on which they can contend. Being Kindred, of 
course, the most common issue is simply naked power. 
If one faction absolutely had to triumph, I suppose 
I would prefer Sabbat hell to Camarilla purgatory. 
Feeding would be simpler and no doubt they would 
leave more ghosts about. However, I suspect their 
“New Utopia” of Kindred masters and human slaves 
is not feasible in practice. Perhaps thirty or forty 
thousand Kindred exist worldwide — if that. And 
the Sabbat expects to enslave billions, who have 
recourse to tanks, flame-throwers and (let us not 
forget) the sun?
Fortunately, the Camarilla has taken it upon itself 
to rein in the enthusiasm of the Sabbat. 
On the global level, the Sabbat and ourselves have 
an unstated policy of mutual disinterest. They have 
made the error of ignoring us on the personal stage as 
well, but I see no reason to follow their foolish lead. 
They’re not a very fit tool, but if one reluctantly ad-
mits to a low level “pack” that the Setites are trying to 
rouse their Antediluvian, the Sabbat can be made to 
pluck the serpents’ fangs. Naturally, they require little 
prodding to rampage against the Camarilla as well. But 
be very careful when it comes to manipulating them: 
Their constant blood sharing makes them unstable and 
frenzy-prone, and their fetishistic philosophies do little 
to inspire self-control. 
Assamites
Accorri says:
“To the workman shall go his wages.” That’s out of 
the Bible. Now that I think of it, most Assamites would 
probably wipe their noses with the Bible, if they still 
had snot to blow. Anyhow, the Assamites used to be 
useful, reliable zips. A little uptight and humorless, but 
what do you expect from a hired gun?
Like the best assassins, they’re more sneaky than 
tough: In a straight fight, I figure your average Brujah 
biker punk could take one pretty quick. Of course, I’ve 
never in my life or unlife seen such a thing as a “straight 
fight” where Kindred are concerned. Hell, I’ve never 
seen a “straight fight,” period.
Lately, they’ve been going utterly batshit on any-
one they think they can fuck with. That means you 
and me in particular, since we don’t have the strength 
of numbers like the big, bad Camarilla or Sabbat. 
They tend to think they can pick lone Giovanni off 
without repercussions, which is why we have to keep 
the pressure on them. If you make your haven in a 
town with a Tremere chantry, you can make this a 
win-win option by selling the Tremere information 
about the Assamites — if you don’t decide to do it 
the other way around. 
You have three advantages over Assamites: You 
got money, you got ghosts and you got self-control. 
The uses of money are obvious. Ghosts are good for 
digging up information, especially daylight information. 
The cannibals are past masters at sneaking around by 
night, but in the daytime they got jack shit, so you 
have the edge there. Finally, keep in mind that their 
drinking problem makes ours look like a walk in the 
park. If you can interrupt their feeding often enough 
(yet another good use for ghosts), you can chuck some 
Camarilla or Sabbat neonate in front of ’em and watch 
the diablerie fly. Once they’ve done that, you can pass 
off the details to either big sect and make the Assamite 
their problem. 
Diego says:
I’m frankly surprised that the blood curse lasted 
as long as it did. As I predicted, the “management” in 
Turkey let its higher-generation scalawags off the leash 
as soon as the curse failed. For all their talk of honor and 
solidarity, their elders are not eager to be surrounded by 
childer with an addiction to Amaranth. 
The Assamites dislike us, but actively despise the 
Tremere and often (by association) the Ventrue. The 
Ventrue are useful to us, and the Tremere envy their 
place: Therefore, it is best for us to direct the dislike 
of the Assamites against the Tremere to protect the 
Ventrue (and ourselves) as much as possible. 
I predict great success for the Assamites — in 
the short term. However, their structure is not strong 
enough to contain a number of dangerous, trained 
killers to whom the taste of elder blood is completely 
irresistible. The elders will need to keep the neonates 
at ever-increasing distance for their own safety, which 
will erode their already weakened authority. I predict a 
major crack in their façade within two years. 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
61
Brujah
Accorri says:
All pain, no gain. All guts, no brain. 
Diego says:
Given the Gangrel defection, the Brujah’s position 
within the Camarilla is strengthened considerably. This 
is just as well: I suspect that Brujah brutishness is just 
what the Camarilla needs to fight off the Sabbat. 
What few Brujah realize is that without the 
structure of the Camarilla, they would have noth-
ing to rebel against and would (consequently) have to 
start doing something instead of simply railing against 
their betters. 
Gangrel
Accorri says:
Just as the Sabbat starts to get uppity, the Gangrel 
decide to bite the hand that feeds them. Beautiful. Hey 
there, Kindred-Formerly-Known-As-Prince! Wanna 
hire out some ghosts for recon? I got a two-fer-one 
special goin’!
If I get everything I want for Christmas, these guys 
will become “Kindred society’s” new guns for hire. 
While Assamites can be nice for cracking out ham-
merheads holed up in a city haven, it looks to me like 
the Gangrel might be a little better for running down 
problems who decide to quit town. Sort of a “hit man 
versus bounty hunter” setup. The sane Assamites you 
can still count on would sure be easier to haggle with 
if they had serious competition in their niche. It’s good 
for the market, you know.
I don’t know if that’s real likely though. The 
Assamites, whatever their other flaws, are tightly 
knit, while the Gangrel as a clan are just a botched 
version of Tarzan Meets Dracula. On an individual 
level, I’m sure there are lots of them who are going 
to find that unlife outside the Camarilla can be cold 
and lonesome, especially when the Sabbat starts to 
settle some scores. Those lonesome strangers are go-
ing to be pretty vulnerable and probably more open 
to dealing with folks from another “outsider clan.” 
It doesn’t hurt that many of them have never seen a 
real, live hundred dollar bill, either.
Diego says:
The Gangrel defection merits a great deal of atten-
tion. Oh, I don’t mean that the Gangrel are going to have 
much impact on our plans: I suspect they’re going to suffer 
greatly from the attentions of the Lupines, if not mortal 
hunters. Other independent clans have hierarchies or 
systems by which they acknowledge their elders to gain 
the strength of unity. (Oh, except for the Ravnos. How 
could I ever forget the Ravnos?) The Gangrel, lacking 
same, can look forward to a steady attrition from their 
well-organized and numerous enemies. 
While the Gangrel are of little use to our clan — 
I suppose they could be used for standard Putanesca 
scut work — the Camarilla must be feeling weak 
and nervous now that one of their two violence 
specialists has scampered off. If the Brujah ever 
take their feet out of their mouths long enough to 
walk away, the Ventrue might have to start doing 
their own dirty work. 
It is therefore desirable to make things easier for the 
Gangrel, for a time. They must survive long enough to 
make things painful for the Camarilla. After that, they 
can sink or float on their own, but if they are hurt too 
badly, too quickly, they’ll run back to their old masters 
with their tails between their legs. 
Any aid should (or course) be given without risk. 
If possible, they should not know who is helping them, 
or even that they have been helped. If being obvious is 
unavoidable, proper care should be taken to make the 
recipient feel indebted. 
Lasombra
Accorri says:
The Lasombra must have really been some-
thing, once upon a time. Actually, they’re still 
something tonight. It’s just that they’re something 
largely anachronistic and irrelevant. Back in the 
Dark Ages you could get away with the brooding, 
uppity, droit de seigneur routine. But I don’t care how 
smart, tough and ruthless you are, no one in the 21st 
century is going to acknowledge a fucking king, espe-
cially some whacked-out freak who proclaims himself 
the dread, dark lord. 
See, the Lasombra (like many strong, capable 
people) don’t know how to lose. They ain’t used to it. 
So when they’re going from strength to strength, get 
out of their way, because capitalizing on victory is what 
they do best. But when they finally do stumble — and 
believe me, when it’s two clans against seven, plus the 
mortals, they’re going to stumble — that’s the time to 
take ’em for all they’re worth. 
Diego says:
Our Spanish cousins are a superb cautionary 
example. A fine combination of strength and in-
tellect, courage and cunning, they have become 
bogged down in the untenable role of “Sabbat coali-
tion builder” and fighting their tedious war against 
slumbering enemies that may or may not exist. This 
is what happens when you try to preserve an old 
situation instead of adapting to a new one. If they 
had turned their considerable energies and abilities 
toward something worthwhile, they’d be done by 
now. Instead, the future they contemplate is one 
of unremitting toil and conflict. What a waste of a 
perfectly functional eternity. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
62
Malkavian
Accorri says:
Even a stopped watch is right twice a day, but that 
doesn’t mean I want one hanging on my wrist. The 
same goes double for Malkavians.
Diego says:
For thousands of years, we knew the real source of 
madness, and now some humorless German has con-
vinced the world that it’s because mama stopped breast 
feeding too soon. Rubbish.
Madness — and particularly the madness of Malka-
vians — is what happens when a mind is too exposed 
to the breakdown of the world. All the Malkavians can 
advise you about is what is leaking through from the 
other side. I can tell you the same: It is merely chaos. 
The madmen can be surprisingly coherent and adroit 
in their actions, but it is ultimately only the rumble of 
thunder without the lightning’s flash. Against the infinite 
patience of oblivion, they are insignificant. 
Nagaraja
Accorri says:
Never heard of it. 
Diego says:
Dust to dust. I would not mind finding one in order 
to investigate rumors of their so-called “Vitreous Path.” 
I also would not mind if they were all extinguished and 
their knowledge with them. 
Nosferatu
Accorri says:
If I was a shit-stinky lump of fugly, I guess it might 
make me feel better to know the deep dirt on everyone 
else. Stay on good terms with these guys — so long as it 
doesn’t involve letting ’em in your haven. Take it from 
me, whatever they’re leaking on your furniture, it goes 
right through the fucking Scotchgard. 
Also — when they start in with the “To me, my 
feral minions!” routine, it’s time to haul some ass.
Diego says:
Like us, they are fortunate. Like our Lamia’s Kiss, 
their curse shields them from the self-deception com-
mon among the Brujah and Toreador. They know they 
are damned. Unfortunately, anyone else with eyes to 
see or a nose to smell knows it as well. 
They are also quite inquisitive. If any clan is 
going to find out about our ultimate goals, it will 
probably be the Nosferatu. Futhermore, as they are 
despised by others, they do tend to stick together 
(no pun intended). Thus, any Nosferatu spy found 
skulking about one’s residence cannot be summarily 
diablerized and dismissed. That will only bring his 
fellow outcasts in search. 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
63
To protect oneself from Nosferatu spying (or 
from anyone else’s, for that matter), it is advisable 
to perform the most secret rituals only in the secure 
confines of strongholds such as those in Venice and 
Boston. Some spiriti possess the ability to penetrate 
Nosferatu disguises, but this is far from being a sure thing. 
Physical precautions are more effective. I am unfamiliar 
with the last word in technological trapping, but I assure 
you a pool of burning oil gives pause to any skulker.
It is also imperative to keep one’s residence free of 
vermin. But the presence of spirits generally frightens 
off any creature smart enough to communicate with a 
Nosferatu. 
Ravnos
Accorri says:
Aw, something bad happened back East to a bunch of 
arrogant, nomadic, lying, sticky-fingered Gypsy douche 
bags? Boo fuckin’ hoo.
Diego says:
The Ravnos are in trouble, thanks, I believe, to 
something gone awry in their bloodline. They are 
so few now! We are also experiencing difficulties, 
courtesy of this new maelstrom. Unlike the Ravnos, 
however, our distress is not known far and wide in 
Kindred society. 
I see two possible fates in store for Clan Ravnos. 
One is that the other predators will scent weakness and 
fall on them like jackals. The other is that the survivors 
will prostitute themselves for protection to whatever 
pimp they can find. 
In the first case, it would be wise for Clan Giovanni 
to be at the table soon enough to dine well. In the 
second case, they are what my Milliner cousins would 
call “motivated sellers,” which is never a strong position 
from which to bargain. 
I recommend that we offer the olive branch of 
succor to the remnants of the Ravnos. It should not 
be unaccompanied by the thorns of scorn and price, 
of course: If we’re “nice” for no reason, they’ll surely 
recognize a trick. But if we offer them protection at a 
high price, I think we can wring more from them than 
those who will not forsake vengeance at any price. 
Eventually, the vengeful might become angry enough 
to be “motivated buyers.”
What can protecting them cost? They are now 
too weak to dare offending us, and any theft gives us 
just cause to rob them in their distress. If any of their 
enemies are too strong, well, protection is easier to 
withdraw than to grant.
If you wish to steal from a man or even merely 
to cheat him, it is easier to do so if he is at your table 
instead of a world away. 
Setites
Accorri says:
You know what I like to do with the snakes? 
Beat the shit out of ’em. Don’t talk to ’em, don’t 
negotiate with ’em, don’t screw around scheming 
against their fucked up mortal pawns: Just pound 
their asses down. Beat them into fucking paste. 
Goddamn I hate these motherfuckers.
Of course, things don’t always go the way you 
want. If you can’t just get the drop on one of these 
shitbags and give him the what-for with a fire ax, you 
may have to apply some strategy. If you can, use our 
general strategy — have ghosts follow him, suck dry 
any mortals he’s got for allies (or, more likely, pat-
sies), disrupt his feeding with spirits until he’s weak 
and blood starved, then go in with the nail-studded 
baseball bat.
If even that ain’t feasible, you can try to rile up the 
Camarilla (“You ain’t gonna believe this, but they’re 
violating the precious Masquerade!”) or the Sabbat 
(“You ain’t gonna believe this, but they wannawake 
up an Antediluvian!”) or the Lupines (“Hey! Look over 
there!”) or the Assamites (“Did you know Set is a Jew? 
Plus, I’ll give you a quarter.”). Don’t try sending in the 
police, though. All you get is a bunch of Dominated, 
blood-bound cops fucking each other up the ass on meth. 
If you absolutely, positively must deal with these 
fuckers… well, just don’t look ’em in the eye, that’s 
all I’ll say.
Diego says:
The crux of our mutual hostility is a fundamental 
incompatibility between our goals and theirs. They want 
to resurrect some withered anachronism of a god and 
spend eternity being the first among its slaves. We, on 
the other hand, wish to reconfigure the world so that 
it is easy for us to be as gods ourselves. 
Our plan is not without a grandeur, I think, that 
contrasts well with the essential squalor and masoch-
ism of theirs. Nonetheless, despite the differences, in 
one important way we are more like the Setites than 
any other clan: We are similar because we both have 
a goal. Not only a goal, but a concrete, transforming 
goal that can be moved toward resolutely and preserved 
indefinitely once achieved. Compare this with the goals 
of the Sabbat and the Camarilla: They are both passive 
and retrograde. They only want to prevent things from 
happening. 
But change is inevitable. Conservatives always lose 
in the end. Only one master plan for the transformation 
of the world is acceptable, and it is not the Setites’. 
The advantage we have is that we know of their 
eschatological ambitions, while they hopefully only 


Clanbook: Giovanni
64
suspect ours. We cannot afford a direct confronta-
tion, but it is nonetheless imperative that their plans 
be foiled. 
Our struggle with them must perforce be a subtle 
one. We must impede and weaken them without them 
perceiving our interference. Given their cunning and 
their inclinations, this is difficult. Tricking a clan of 
thieves, liars and pimps is a task akin to bearding a 
lion in its den.
To succeed, we must play to our strengths and offset 
theirs. Our strengths are money and spirits. Money can 
be used to ruin their havens or (in the conflict-rich areas 
that both our clans favor) to hire mercenaries. Even the 
strongest of the Serpents tend to pause when stopping 
rounds from a repeating rifle. 
More importantly, the restless dead are largely 
impervious to the Setites’ usual fleshly blandishments. 
However, the Serpents are experts at the manipulation 
of human passion. If they perceive the needs of both 
spiriti and spettri for emotion, our own tools may be 
turned against us. 
A covert war against the most duplicitous of clans 
is a daunting and dangerous task, but we do have one 
great advantage. Our founder is already awake. 
Toreador
Accorri says:
I’d like to dismiss the lot of ’em as a pack of bucaiòli, 
but I’ve reluctantly had to admit that they can be pretty 
smart sometimes. I’m thinking about the Internet stocks 
here. Say what you want about the Toreador, once they 
heard there was a new way to look at dirty pictures they 
were on it like dollars on a dirty cop. I put some money 
in when I saw which way the wind was blowing, but 
the clan elders in Venice just couldn’t understand what 
was so great about being able to hook your calculator to 
a telegraph. Damn. But I suppose it wasn’t our biggest 
missed opportunity in 2000. 
Also, I think that “artistic entrancement” 
bullshit is a put-on. You want to know their real 
weakness? It’s that they can still have orgasms, 
which means most of ’em are still carrying their 
brains between their legs. 
If you’re good looking you can probably entice them 
with the whole gothick, brooding, dark “allure of the 
forbidden necromantic dabbler” shtick. But the Internet 
stocks are played out, so what’s the point?
Diego says:
As with so many of the clans, the great strength of 
the Toreador is also their great weakness. That central 
factor is this: They are the closest among us to being 
mortal. Many of them refuse to realize that human 
emotions are only a hazard to undead like us. 
Their mawkishness aside, the Toreador are 
probably our strongest allies in the Camarilla. Their 
greed for ordinary pleasure and wealth are a refresh-
ing change from the emotional machinations of the 
Lasombra, the incoherent political philosophy of 
the Brujah or the rigid, abstract power plays of the 
Ventrue. Their desperation to cling to humanity 
has made the Toreador pleasingly pragmatic about 
other aspects of undead existence. Thus, they can be 
negotiated with to much advantage. 
Tremere
Accorri says:
I hate every last one of these goddamn commies, 
and the only reason I miss food is ’cause I can’t hold 
one down and shit on him. 
I ain’t crazy about any clan with a “ruling 
council,” but one that makes everyone lower on 
the ladder suck dick (or the undead equivalent) 
is just showing how chickenshit they are at heart. 
Oh, they’re clever and they’ve got some tricks that 
would make Penn and Teller cream their jeans… 
but they’re cowards when it comes to actually do-
ing anything. For every Tremere who’s taking care of 
business, there’s two holed up in a tower somewhere 
working on the Path of Thumb up My Ass. This does 
mean their “panties,” or whatever the fuck they call 
their witch-houses, are well protected.
The only thing they do better than fuck each other 
over is make enemies of other clans. The Tzimisce have 
a raging hard-on to kill the Tremere 24/ 7/ 365-and-a-
quarter, and the Assamites are possibly even more pissed 
off. If you can’t bargain an Assamite down to fucking 
pennies when it comes to doing a hit on a Tremere, 
then you’re a disgrace to your stingy, chiseling ancestors. 
Speaking of chiseling, the other Tremere weakness 
is they think they’re smarter than everyone else, even 
though most of these limpos couldn’t out-haggle a 
Toronto used car dealer on the sharpest night of their 
unlives. They’re always interested in new magical 
fucked-upness, so they’re happy to make a “fair trade” 
of thaumaturgical knowledge for necromancy. Heh. I 
know a Pisanob in Cuba who’s sold the first couple of 
ranks of the Bone Path three times, learning different 
Tremere paths every time.
By the way, you heard the joke about the Tremere 
who used a tampon as a tea bag?
Diego says:
The Tremere want to supplant the Ventrue as 
the foundation of the Camarilla. They are too well 
organized and responsive for this to be permitted. 
Under Ventrue influence, the Camarilla is conser-
vative to the point of immobility. That is a good 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
65
thing. Under Tremere guidance, the Camarilla 
would become more focused and direct, and more 
capable of discerning our true goals. That would 
be a bad thing. However, the admirable tenacity of 
the Tremere should not be underestimated. Despite 
their reputation as neurasthenic scholars, they have 
survived everything the Tzimisce, Assamites and 
Gangrel have been able to align against them for 
centuries. Thus, we should not openly alienate them, 
lest they succeed at seizing the Camarilla and turn 
vengeful eyes upon us.
The opportunity in this situation lies in our own 
crisis. For decades, the Tremere have coveted our nec-
romantic powers, even going so far as to produce their 
own, off-brand “Spirit Thaumaturgy” out of scraps from 
our superior Ash Path. 
We have always resisted giving away our most 
powerful secrets. Now that the Shadowlands have sud-
denly become so perilous, perhaps it is time for greater 
openness with the Tremere. They have clamored so 
long: Perhaps we should finally sell them enough rope 
to hang themselves. 
Tzimisce
Accorri says:
Wow. Not only are they saddled with a name no one 
can pronounce, they all seem doomed to spend eternity 
playing with themselves. Now that’s damnation.
Diego says:
The Tzimisce are experts in a highly arcane field that 
has no relevance to us, nor to anything else. We politely 
stay out of their way and expect the same courtesy.
Ventrue
Accorri says:
These guys put the “anal” in “banal.” Cute, huh? 
A Toreador told me that one. They’ve got more money 
than Croesus and their hooks are in every police de-
partment in the world. Half the EU and large chunks 
of NATO are either sucking them off or being sucked 
on, and either way the Blue Bloods win.
They have all this power, and what are they doing 
with it? Nothing. Literally, they are not actively doing 
anything — oh, unless you include looking for a “scientific 
explanation” for the undead condition. Instead, they’re 
putting all that effort and energy into prevention. 
That’s what I love about the Ventrue: They spend 
their whole unlives covering ass because they figure 
that we “Kindred” will all hang together if one ass gets 
caught hanging separately. Keep up the good work, 
knuckleheads!
Diego says:
The key to the Ventrue is respect. Their highest 
priority is maintaining their delusions of primacy. Few 
Ventrue conflicts cannot be salved by gestures of peni-
tence. Hang your head, act as if you’ve been caught in 
an inescapable bind (which may well be true, given 
their admitted skill at managing the talents of other 
clans), unwillingly offer reparations and move on to 
the next step in bringing the Endless Night. Once the 
sudario is down, the Ventrue may well be our greatest 
Kindred foes, so it is necessary to limit their power as 
much as possible now. But challenging their power 
directly only provokes them to greater stubbornness. 
Remember always that in their minds, they are the 
nobles and we are the merchants. They are content 
to humiliate us, whereas a Lasombra or Tzimisce they 
would destroy. 
Other Troublemakers
Lupines
Accorri says:
Stay the fuck away, period. Teasing the animals is 
only moderately safer than sunbathing.
Diego says:
The judicious use of a spirito proxy can lead head-
strong Lupines (as if one could find any other kind) into 
a Setite lair or Tremere chantry, but know that they are 
not as naïve about the spirit world as we might hope. 
If you attract the attention of vengeful werewolf, your 
best recourse is to flee and wait for it to age away. 
Mages
Accorri says:
Okay, lemme tell you about the sorcerers I per-
sonally knew. They formed a “circle,” about three 
of these punks, pale, dressed in black and generally 
acting like blood doll wannabes. We made each 
other’s acquaintance through some mutual contacts 
on the other side of the Shroud, and I eventually 
got to the point that I was willing to meet and talk 
with them. They wanted, surprise surprise, instruc-
tion about necromancy and the Kindred, and they 
offered their own knowledge in return. So we went 
back and forth for a while, doing the horse trader 
bit, and I tricked them all into partial blood bonds, 
but they were just a pain in the ass to deal with. 
They didn’t want to get involved with the other 
clans: They didn’t really give much of a fuck about 
Kindred society at all. They only wanted to know 
what we knew about the other side, but every time 
I’d tell them something they’d just kind of shake 
their heads or act snotty or try to “gently correct 
my misperceptions.”
Then the maelstrom came along. Now, two of 
them are dead and the third one got himself stuck 
on the other side of the Shroud. Idiot. Sure, they got 
their avatarget quintessarial paraclytic whatevers, 


Clanbook: Giovanni
66
but I guess they didn’t experience two spirit storms 
before this, did they? 
Diego says:
My knowledge of the “worldbuilders” is slight, as is 
their effect on the world’s Kindred. From direct experi-
ence, I would say that an alert magus is a good match 
for a neonate. Their comparative physical fragility is 
balanced by their versatility. Thus, in any Kindred-on-
mage conflict, surprise is desirable. But I suppose that’s 
true of any conflict. 
If the enchanters have a general flaw, it is 
simply this: Like the Tremere, they tend to judge 
themselves smarter than anyone they meet. Even 
a crafty and powerful wizard is likely to underes-
timate the guile needed to survive centuries of 
Kindred realpolitik. They can be used, but as tools 
of unknown capacities and weaknesses, they are 
best used with great caution. Better to simply let 
time be your assassin. 
Changelings
Accorri says:
Whatever. The only fairies I care about are 
the Toreador. 
Diego says:
As with the sorcerers, my encounters with fate 
have been rare and not particularly satisfactory. Their 
claim of another world, “Arcadia,” overlapping our 
own sounds similar to our own experience with the 
Shadowlands — and yet, we are unable to contact 
this region or confirm its existence. I am content that 
it is not relevant to our goals. Another supernatural 
zone means there is a possibility, however slight, that 
the Endless Night could have substantially unforeseen 
consequences.
I would like very much to acquire such a being for 
study. Unfortunately, our preferred method of securing 
souls for interrogation does not seem to work on faer-
ies, causing the additional challenge of keeping one 
imprisoned and alive. 
Hunters
Accorri says:
I’d pawn my fangs and drink through a fucking 
straw to know where these little shits came from. 
Sinners in the hands of an angry God or something, 
probably. The best theory I heard came from a 
Tremere who was hanging out with some honest-to-
Caine mage shooting the shit about the maelstrom 
and Bangladesh and all the other freaky nonsense 
that’s been going down. Anyhow, the mages think 
all the mystic shit in the world is connected some-
how — I think the Tremere called it a Hermetic 
model or a Platonic ideal or something — and that 
it’s starting to shift, or maybe crack apart. If they’re 
right, that means all the magic tricks we use to stay 
out of sight are starting to crap out. These “hunters” 
are just ordinary schmucks upon whom our hiding 
Disciplines don’t work anymore. 
In fact, it was probably one of these bastards 
who cost us Birmingham. This philandering cracker 
named Henry Eames cleaned out the local nest of 
Camarilla pussies, allowing us to move right in. 
Unfortunately, he’s still around, still making trouble. 
Kidnapping his daughter only slowed him down — 
he’s got buddies coming out of the woodwork to 
whack a ghoul here and bruise up a neonate there. 
The cops are after him for murdering his wife (long 
story), so it’s only a matter of time before the To-
reador or Ventrue get their mitts on him, and then 
I’ll have to haggle with them. 
What’s bad is, I’ve heard some of them can just rub 
their eyes and shrug off our “do what I tell you” thing. 
On the plus side, beating their asses into fine gel still 
works as well as ever. 
Diego says:
In AD 1000, history notes hysteria, violence and 
a tremendous resurgence in superstition, eschatology 
and the kind of faith that leads people to do stupid 
and hurtful things. In the year 2000, I recall little 
in the way of the predicted “millennial terrorism,” 
but I wonder if the passion and belief simply found 
another outlet. I have felt the force of a chanted 
sutra as powerfully as a brandished cross. Who is to 
say that the modern New Age beliefs propagated 
through television and tabloids have not found their 
own form of true faith?
Regardless of my theory, the fact remains that 
some mortals can indeed peer through the Camarilla’s 
Masquerade as if it were glass. Not only that, they are 
able to perceive ghosts in the Skinlands as well. Thus, 
it is quite easy to use a compliant spirito to lead these 
crusading zealots to the local Elysium. Either the med-
dling mortals die or the troublesome Kindred do, and 
everyone goes home happy.
Everyone who matters, anyhow. 
The Orphic Circle
Accorri says:
Who?
Diego says:
Wherever did you hear of the Orphic Circle? 
You need not concern yourself with them. 
Like the Nagaraja, their time has come and gone. 
Should you encounter our renegade cousin Anto-
nio and his associates, however, do not hesitate to 
inform me immediately. I am eager to express my 
displeasure to him. 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
67
New Traits
The following new Traits may help players and 
Storytellers round out their Giovanni characters. As 
always, these new options are just that — optional — 
and Storytellers may restrict their use in chronicles.
 New Background
Spirit Slaves 
Nunzio felt vaguely idiotic as he gestured with the knife 
at the stuffed animal. “Goddamn it Betsy,” he yelled, “If 
you don’t do what I tell you, I swear I will slit this furry 
fucker from tail to ears and shit in the stuffing!”
“Nooo…” wailed the little girl ghost. “That’s Mister 
Fun Bunny! My daddy gave him to me!”
“I don’t care if he’s Mister Fuck Buddy, unless you 
watch that old bastard — the guy I showed you, with the 
big ears and the beard — the rabbit’s gone, got it? Gone!”
The young ghost sobbed, provoking disgust deep 
in Nunzio’s stilled heart. Maybe he should have tried 
the other ghost, the one tied to that goddamn weight 
belt, of all things… then Nunzio saw that Betsy was 
reluctantly nodding.
“You’ll go?”
She dipped her head.
“Good. See? Was that so hard? And after you tell me 
what he did, tell you what: We’ll go to McDonald’s and you 
can watch some kids, all right?”
“The one with the playground?”
Jesus Christ. “Sure. Whatever.”
This Trait represents a hold you have over a 
ghost, or several ghosts. Usually this hold is in the 
form of catene — either something that the ghost 
valued highly in life, or possibly a random object or 
place to which the spirito became attached during 
the maelstrom. Regardless, you have a hold over 
the spirit and can bully it by threatening its fetter. 
Alternatively, you might have information about the 
spirit’s goals and can control it by aiding or imped-
ing it. For more information on what ghosts can do 
and the ratings of this Background, see the “Spirit 
Slaves” box on p. 54.
• 	
You have a hold on one weak spirito.
•• 	
You have influence over two minor ghosts, or 
	
one of greater power.
••• 	
You’re the boss of three lesser ghosts, or fewer 
	
who can do more.
•••• 	 Four ghosts are under your sway, or fewer who 
 	
are stronger.
••••• 	You have mastered five weak ghosts, or fewer 
	
who are more talented.
MET System: You can apply this Background in 
place of the Retainers advantage that Giovanni usually 
possess. The Spirit Slave Background then differenti-
ates between mortal confederates and bound souls. 
A Giovanni can purchase Spirit Slaves like any other 
Background, but it is not available to characters 
without Necromancy.
Ghiberti Necromancy
When brought into the Giovanni fold, the 
Ghiberti were already quite familiar with the finer 
points of African nigrimancy. Those unaccustomed to 
the fourfold souls of abombo (African wraiths) often 
have trouble controlling them — mechanically, an 
inexperienced Kindred suffers a +2 penalty to the 
difficulty of rolls to use Necromancy on the ghosts 
of indigenous Africans. Former slave traders, the 
Ghiberti combined elements of their prior profession 
and their unwholesome sorcery to create a path of 
Necromancy that made the enslavement of Ivory 
Kingdom wraiths easier to accomplish. Studying the 
strange powers of the ghostly Moriman, the Ghiberti 
learned to trace wraiths and bind them. Note that 
few (if any) Giovanni who are not members of the 
Ghiberti family have access to the knowledge of 
how to compel abombo, much less mastery of the 
Cenotaph Path. 
The Cenotaph Path
Experienced Ghiberti Kindred recognized that 
mystically compelling the dead required an exten-
sive knowledge of the ghosts to be so commanded. 
Whereas many among the family content themselves 
with mastery of the occasional wraith and the means 
to affect corpses or the Underworld, more erudite 
practitioners looked into necromantic means to 
unearth locations or objects holding strong ties to 
the dead. Some such studies became rituals, whereas 
others developed into a discrete path concerned 
primarily with discovering or forging links between 
the living world and the Shadowlands.
Most students of Necromancy attribute the cre-
ation of the Cenotaph Path to the eras following the 
World Wars. The great numbers of dead and dying 
across the world, especially with displaced soldiers 
flung to far corners of the globe, made for a brisk 
trade in soul-catching. Those Ghiberti who could 
“sniff out” the recently dead (especially in quantity) 
managed to augment their pursuits with the use of 
Cenotaph Necromancy to find objects or locations 
important to the legions of wraiths. A few older 
members of the Giovanni point out that similar 
powers proved useful during the ancient heyday of 
Mediterranean expansion, in seeking out death cults 
or battlefields during the prime of Rome and Italy. 
Regardless, the path remains something of a rarity, 


Clanbook: Giovanni
68
chic impression” for purposes of the Sepulchre Path’s 
powers, so the Kindred may be able to (for example) 
immediately command a ghost to exit a person whom 
it possesses.
MET System: You simply touch an object or person 
and make a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of 
6 Traits, using Occult Ability for retests. If you succeed, 
you immediately realize whether any wraithly powers 
have been exerted on the subject during the current 
game session. If the wraith currently possesses the object 
or person touched, you become aware of this and may 
choose to exercise your Sepulchre Path powers (if any) 
as if you knew the wraith’s name.
•• Reveal the Catene
Necromantic compulsions function much more 
effectively when the caster uses an object of signifi-
cance to the ghost in question. Such fetters tie the 
dead to the living lands through their remembered 
importance — a favored recliner for relaxing, a 
reviled piece of art foisted off by hated relatives 
or some object of similarly intense emotion. Many 
Giovanni can detect such catene through the use 
of rituals (see Ritual of the Unearthed Fetter, p. 165 
of Vampire: The Masquerade). With this power, 
though, the Ghiberti can determine a fetter with 
just a few moments of handling. The Kindred simply 
runs his hands over the object and concentrates on 
it. He quickly receives an impression of the item’s 
(or person’s) importance to wraiths, if any; should 
the wraith be one known to the Necromancer, he 
immediately recognizes the object as a fetter to that 
(or those) wraith(s). Successful identification of 
a connected wraith is not exclusive; that is, if the 
Giovanni determines that the object is important 
to a given wraith, he can also determine if there are 
other wraiths tied to the item, though he must use 
the power again to gain their identities.
Many Necromancers use this power on objects 
already identified with A Touch of Death, in order to 
determine whether the ghost is trying to attune a given 
fetter or simply toying with the world of the living.
System: The Necromancer holds and examines 
the object for at least three turns — if it’s an item, 
this means turning it over in his hands, running his 
fingers along it or otherwise giving it a critical eye; 
with a person, this may require a more… invasive… 
examination. The player then spends a blood point and 
rolls Perception + Occult (difficulty 7). If successful, 
the Kindred determines whether the object holds any 
significance to any wraith and, with three or more suc-
cesses, the identity of at least one such wraith (which 
of course allows the Kindred to use the Sepulchre Path 
as it serves primarily to amplify the other powers of 
an already-skilled Necromancer.
Cenotaph Necromancy seems to function on the 
principle that a Kindred, already a cadaver, is an un-
natural bridge between the living and the dead. Through 
this principle, the path allows the Necromancer to 
find other, similar linkages. The basic rudiments of the 
Cenotaph Path function easily enough once the Kindred 
learns to attune himself to these connections. Advanced 
mastery of the path usually entails some brief ritual to 
forge artificial connections, either through breaking 
taboos to draw the Shadowlands closer by focusing un-
savory passions or through techniques of authority and 
purity designed to command the two disparate worlds 
together. (See Blood Magic: Secrets of Thaumaturgy 
for information about Necromancy techniques.)
• A Touch of Death
Just as a Necromancer may exert mastery over 
the Shadowlands, so too can some ghosts exert 
themselves in the mortal world. Whereas obvious 
displays of wraithly power such as bleeding walls or 
disembodied moans certainly won’t be mistaken, 
some ghostly abilities exert subtle effects that aren’t 
easily recognized. A Necromancer sensitized to the 
residue of the dead, though, can feel whether an 
object has been touched by a ghost or sense the 
recent passage of a wraith.
System: The Necromancer simply touches a person 
or object that he suspects is a victim of ghostly influence. 
The player rolls Perception + Occult (difficulty 6). If 
successful, the Necromancer can determine whether 
a ghost has exerted any sorts of wraithly power on 
the subject, or even crossed nearby, to the duration 
detailed below.
1 success	
Last turn; detect use of ghostly powers
2 successes	
Last three turns; detect use of 
	
	
ghostly powers
3 successes	
Last hour; detect ghost’s touch and use 
 	
	
of ghostly powers
4 successes	
Last day; detect ghost’s touch and use 
	
	
of ghostly powers
5 successes	
Last week; detect nearby passage of 
	
	
ghost, ghost’s touch and use of 	 	
	
	
ghostly powers
On a failure, the Necromancer receives no im-
pressions. A botch reveals a misleading answer (an 
object may seem tinged with ghostly power when it’s 
not, or vice versa). Should the Necromancer succeed 
in detection while touching an object or person that 
a ghost is possessing, he immediately becomes aware 
that the ghost is still inside. The impression gained 
in such a case is sufficient to count as a “strong psy-


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
69
on that wraith). If the Necromancer already knows any 
of the wraiths involved, their ties are revealed with 
their identity — so, if the Necromancer already knows 
of a wraith well enough to summon and compel it with 
other powers, successful identification of a fetter tells 
whether the object is tied to that wraith, in addition 
to any other impressions gained.
If a botch is scored, the Ghiberti can never suc-
cessfully use this power on the item being examined.
MET System: Spend a Blood Trait and take half 
a minute (or three turns, if you are in combat time) 
carefully examining your subject (but don’t touch 
other players — remember the No Touch rule). Then, 
make a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty 7 Traits, 
with Occult Ability for retests. If you succeed, you 
immediately know whether the object is a Fetter. 
If so, you gain an impression of the identity of one 
wraith to whom it is Fettered, though a Narrator or 
Storyteller decides what name to give. If the object 
is a Fetter to multiple wraiths, you will receive an 
impression as well as the information that “other 
wraiths are tied to this item,” and you may exercise 
the power again to gain additional different identities 
(any identity already known to you is automatically 
excluded).
••• Tread Upon the Grave
The extended awareness granted with the Ceno-
taph Path allows the Necromancer to sense the 
vagaries of the sudario and to find locations where the 
Shadowlands and the living world come close. Often, 
the Necromancer experiences a chill or shiver when 
stepping into an area where the Underworld lies near 
the living one. With practice, the Giovanni can tell 
exactly where such locations are.
Experienced Necromancers learn that certain 
locations are susceptible to ghostly influence; these 
haunted areas often become homes of a sort for wraiths. 
A knowledgeable vampire can thus discover places 
where the dead are likely to congregate, the better to 
snare them with other Necromancy powers.
System: The player simply declares intent to 
sense the Shroud in an area and makes a Willpower 
roll (difficulty 8). Success reveals the Shroud rating. 
The Storyteller informs the player of the rating, while 
in story terms the Giovanni learns that the location 
is highly attuned to the Shadowlands, about average 
(not very close to the world of the dead) or far removed 
from the realm of death. Failing use of the power has 
no adverse affect, though it may be attempted only 
once per scene (so the Necromancer must either wait 
for a time or move to a different area before attempting 
Tread Upon the Grave once more). A botch stuns the 
Giovanni into inaction for a full turn as well as costing 
him a temporary Willpower point, as he is overcome 
by shivers and the sense of overwhelming despair from 
the Shadowlands.
With three or more successes, the Necromancer 
can determine whether the Shroud’s strength has been 
artificially altered in the area (perhaps through the use 
of the Ash Path or certain ghostly powers).
MET System: Spend a Willpower Trait and make 
a Static Mental Challenge against a Storyteller; the 
Storyteller determines the difficulty. If you succeed, 
you immediately determine the strength of the Shroud. 
If you fail, no information is revealed. You may use 
this power only once on any given location in each 
game session. 
•••• Death Knell
Not all who die go on to become ghosts — many 
lack the drive to hang on after death or simply have 
no overwhelming needs that compel them to stick 
around. Normally, even Necromancers have no way to 
sort those who might become ghosts from the masses 
who go on to whatever rewards await. Over time, 
though, a Necromancer can become sensitized to the 
pull of death that occurs when a soul escapes from a 
body only to hover in wait, enslaved by its postmor-
tem desires. The weight of desperation becomes like 
a tangible tug, and some Necromancers even learn to 
savor this emotion even as they follow the sensation 
to find the new ghost.
Of course, actually discovering the new ghost 
can be problematic. The Kindred may need some 
means to see through the Shroud or may have to 
send other wraiths to look for the new unfortunate, 
especially if a large accident or massacre leaves too 
many corpses for the Ghiberti to easily discern and 
test names with other compulsions. Furthermore, 
new ghosts typically enter the afterlife insensate and 
covered in a sticky plasm that clouds their minds; the 
ghost must be freed from this spirit sludge before she 
can be useful, which again requires the Necromancer 
either to reach through the Shroud himself or to send 
a wraithly proxy to do so. 
System: Whenever someone dies and becomes a 
wraith within a half-mile of the Ghiberti, the Necro-
mancer automatically senses the demise (though many 
choose to ignore this “always-on” power unless actively 
seeking someone). This power does not automatically 
pinpoint the location of the new wraith or identify it, 
but the player may spend one Willpower point and roll 
Perception + Occult (difficulty 7) for the Necromancer 
to gain a vague sense of the distance and direction to the 
new wraith. With one success, the Kindred may sense a 


Clanbook: Giovanni
70
vague pull in a general direction; with three successes, 
the Necromancer can sense the direction and guess 
distance to within a quarter-mile. With five successes, 
the Necromancer immediately senses the location of the 
new ghost to within a foot. A failure carries no penalty 
but a botched attempt naturally sends the Necromancer 
scurrying off in the wrong direction.
The Storyteller may rule that disturbances in 
the Underworld, intervening magic or other similar 
phenomena cloud this sensation, simply to prevent 
overburdening a chronicle with constant ghost-hunting 
and dice rolling.
MET System: A Storyteller or Narrator should 
inform you when a new wraith comes into existence 
within the play area (because this event will be rather 
unusual, and a Storyteller or Narrator should be pres-
ent when a character dies, this requirement isn’t too 
egregious). You may spend a Willpower Trait and make 
a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty of seven Traits, 
with Occult Ability as a retest, in order to determine 
the direction to the new wraith. Once you have that 
information (or fail to gain it), the rest of the job of 
location is up to you.
••••• Ephemeral Binding
The most puissant Necromancers learn not only 
to sense the ties between living and dead, but to 
forge such ties themselves. The master of Ephemeral 
Binding turns an otherwise mundane object or person 
into a depository for his own mephitic energy, the 
undying Curse transforming the subject into a sort of 
linkage between living and dead. The Ghiberti smears 
his blood on the item in question, which mystically 
absorbs the vitae and, in doing so, becomes a vessel 
to anchor a spirit.
System: The Necromancer must coat an object 
with his blood (a full blood point’s worth); if the 
subject is a person, then that individual must ingest 
the vitae. The player marks off the blood point, 
spends a point of Willpower and rolls Manipulation 
+ Occult (difficulty 8). If successful, the item tempo-
rarily becomes a fetter to one wraith. If the Kindred 
already knows the name of the wraith or has a strong 
psychic impression, then the object can become a 
fetter at any range, even to a ghost who normally 
does not come near the living world (so long as the 
ghost still exists). Otherwise, the Ghiberti must be 
able to see or sense the ghost (with Shroudsight or 
other such means).
A fetter artificially created in this fashion functions 
for all necromantic and ghostly purposes as a normal 
fetter: It can be detected with other necromantic 
powers, the Giovanni gains a bonus to Necromancy 
against the wraith attuned to it, and the ghost similarly 
finds exertion of its powers easier upon the subject (so 
the Giovanni might turn an unwitting ghoul into a 
consort for a wraith familiar with possession…). The 
wraith can sink into the fetter to heal; conversely, if 
the fetter is destroyed, the wraith is banished to some 
inaccessible region of the Underworld, perhaps never 
to return.
A fetter created with Ephemeral Binding lasts for 
one night per success scored. The expenditure of an 
additional point of temporary Willpower increases 
this duration to a week per success, whereas spending 
a permanent point of Willpower extends the duration 
to a year and a night.
Botching with this power not only causes failure 
but also makes the ghost immediately aware of what 
the Necromancer was trying to do. Most ghosts do not 
take kindly to meddling Kindred trying to make artificial 
chains for them.
MET System: You expend a Blood Trait and a 
Willpower Trait and make a Social Challenge against 
a targeted wraith (using Occult Ability for retests) — 
either one you can see, or one you already know. If you 
succeed, the subject of your power becomes a Fetter to 
the wraith for the duration of the game session; you can 
spend a Willpower Trait at the beginning of each new 
session to keep the item active as a Fetter, or spend a 
permanent Willpower Trait to make the object a Fetter 
for a full year of play.
Pisanob Necromancy
The roots of Pisanob Necromancy intertwine 
with the dark practices of the Mesoamerican cultures 
of the Aztecs and, to a lesser degree, their predeces-
sors, the Mayans and the Toltecs. The death magic 
practiced by this branch of the Giovanni clan is 
inexorably tied to the elaborate ceremony of Aztec 
religious rites. As a result, the Pisanob have grown 
dependent on the ritualistic trappings employed 
by their forebears. Deprived of these, the Pisanob 
Necromancer finds using the Black Art much more 
difficult, if not impossible, to perform. In game terms, 
the player of such a character suffers a difficulty 
increase of +2 when attempting Necromancy rolls, 
though this may be overcome for a scene at the cost 
of one Willpower point.
As inexorably tied to ritual as the Pisanob are, 
it’s not surprising that they’ve developed a number 
of necromantic rituals to which individuals within 
the family have access and guard preciously. Of 
the following, only the Ritual of Pochtli is widely 
practiced by Kindred outside the Pisanob branch 
of the Giovanni.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
71
Ritual of the Smoking Mirror  
(Level One Ritual)
Named for the chief Aztec god Tezcatlipoca, this 
ritual allows the Necromancer to use an obsidian 
mirror to see as ghosts do. By gazing into the mirror’s 
ebony depths, the Pisanob may discover an object’s 
flaws, assess the general health of mortals or even read 
a being’s aura.
At the start of the ritual, the Kindred decides 
which of the ritual’s two aspects she will use — she 
may not use both at the same time. With Lifesight, 
the Necromancer may read auras as if she had the 
level two Auspex power, Aura Perception. Death-
sight, on the other hand, grants the Necromancer 
the ability to see wraiths and the Shadowlands. It 
also shows the stain of oblivion on the living, which 
a knowledgeable Necromancer may use to diagnose 
and study illnesses, damage or disabilities from which 
a target may suffer with a successful Perception + 
Medicine roll (difficulty 4 to 8, depending on the 
ailment’s nature). At the Storyteller’s discretion, the 
Kindred may make a similar study of an inanimate 
object’s flaw and how to repair them, if that object 
has a strong link to either life- or death-energies 
(such as a murderer’s knife or a window box used to 
grow healing herbs).
To perform the ritual, the Necromancer grasps 
an obsidian mirror that has had its edge sharpened 
so that it cuts into the flesh of whoever takes hold 
of it. As the vitae flows onto the mirror’s surface, 
it allows the mirror’s reflective power to bridge the 
worlds of the living and the dead, much as it allows 
the Necromancer herself to do. If the Kindred wishes 
Lifesight, she calls upon the power of Tonatiuh, He 
Who Goes Forth Shining. If she wishes Deathsight, 
she calls upon Mictlantéotl, Aztec god of the Un-
derworld. The player then rolls to activate the ritual 
as normal (Intelligence + Occult, difficulty 4). If 
successful, the Necromancer may view the world as 
a wraith does via the reflective surface of the mir-
ror for a scene. On a botch, the vampire may well 
invoke the ire of the deities upon whom she calls, 
with disastrous results.
MET System: As described above, a successful 
Static Mental Challenge, difficulty of four Traits 
(modified by the strength of the Shroud if some sort of 
Necromancy has altered that), allows the Necromancer 
to use a mirror as a focus to see the Underworld. The 
vampire can see with Deathsight, using a Mental Chal-
lenge with Medicine Ability to determine someone’s 
state of health (and health levels) and performing 
a similar scan on objects using Crafts, or Lifesight, 
gaining the ability to see auras with a Static Mental 


Clanbook: Giovanni
72
Ritual of Xipe Totec  
(Level Four Ritual)
In times past, Aztec priests would flay the skin from 
a victim and wear it as a sacrifice to Xipe Totec, god of 
suffering and renewal. In a similar vein, the Giovanni 
of the Pisanob branch of the clan may skin their prey 
alive, but for a more pragmatic reason — to steal that 
person’s identity.
To perform the ritual, the Kindred removes his 
victim’s top layer of skin with an obsidian dagger, tak-
ing care to damage the skin as little as possible in the 
process. The victim must survive the process (though 
she may well die of blood loss shortly after the ritual 
if not seen to properly). He then drains the victim’s 
blood into a large ceremonial golden bowl. There the 
blood is mixed with octli, amaranth and other ingredi-
ents. When imbibed by the Necromancer, this mixture 
causes him to sweat a glistening sheen of blood (equal 
to one blood point). The Kindred then dons the skin 
of his victim, which on a successful roll absorbs the 
Kindred vitae and begins to heal, forming a second 
skin over the Pisanob’s own. Naturally , the victim 
needs to be of similar stature — otherwise, the features 
become distorted and the disguise is rendered useless. 
This power also has no effect on Kindred or Lupines.
Under normal visual scrutiny, the ruse is flawless. 
Of course, it imparts none of the victim’s knowledge or 
mannerisms (and does nothing to mask the Kindred’s 
own undead nature). It, therefore, works best for situ-
ations in which contact with friends and family may 
be minimized. To preserve the skin’s condition, the 
Kindred must bathe it in a blood point’s worth of vitae 
nightly. When the Pisanob removes the skin (which 
causes one level of unsoakable lethal damage to the 
user and must be done with the same knife used to flay 
the victim in the first place), it is ruined in the process.
Needless to say, conducting this ritual will almost 
certainly require Humanity checks for characters of 
suitable moral stature.
MET System: You remove the skin from a vic-
tim (as a game action only, of course) — this means 
that you must have your living victim restrained or 
incapacitated, and you must have a skinning tool and 
appropriate time, meaning that the ritual is probably 
best cast out-of-play. You must make a successful 
Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of seven Traits, 
retesting with Occult) to enact the ritual properly with 
the flayed skin, or else it won’t heal correctly. As with 
the Mask of a Thousand Faces Discipline, you should 
wear a name tag to indicate your change of identity. 
If you feel sufficiently clever, you can trust the player 
of the character whose skin you’ve stolen to play your 
Challenge as described for the Aura Perception Disci-
pline. Note that the player must have an item card 
representing the appropriate mirror used for this ritual, 
and further that only reflections in the mirror reveal 
these characteristics.
Ritual of Pochtli (Level Two Ritual)
See p. 44.
Divine Sign (Level Three Ritual)
With this ritual, the Pisanob Necromancer may 
use the principles of Aztec astrology to divine a per-
son’s day sign. Used upon the living, this information 
allows the Necromancer to divine the target’s future 
actions. In the dead, this knowledge forges a more 
intimate connection with the target, making it easier 
to cast other necromantic effects on her.
Upon learning a person’s birth date, the Pi-
sanob’s player may roll to activate this ritual in 
order to cross-reference it with the Tonalamatl, the 
Book of Destinies, and thereby learn that person’s 
day sign. If successful, the Kindred may use this to 
predict the target’s next course of action, allow-
ing him to deal with it accordingly. The effect on 
wraiths is quite different. As they have already died, 
the Tonalamatl can offer no insight into the spirits’ 
destinies, which have already run their course. In-
stead, the ritual imparts upon the Necromancer so 
intimate an understanding of the wraith in question 
that it acts as a connection to the ghost, making 
it easier to invoke other Necromancy effects on 
that spirit. For story purposes, it’s equivalent to 
holding one of that wraith’s fetters (see Ritual of 
the Unearthed Fetter on p. 165 of Vampire: The 
Masquerade for details).
MET System: You make a Static Mental Chal-
lenge (difficulty of the target’s Mental Traits) as you 
reference the subject’s name in the Book of Destinies. 
(Acquiring a copy of the Tonalamatl may require the 
use of Occult Influence, and you may need special 
Linguistics Abilities if it’s not translated.) If you suc-
ceed in casting this ritual against a living or undead 
individual, you gain one free retest in your next chal-
lenge against that individual. If you cast this ritual 
against a wraith, you act as if you hold a Fetter of 
the wraith for your next use of another Necromancy 
power on it. You must have the individual’s birth 
date, whether acquired in game or through research 
and Influence (such as Bureaucracy Influence). This 
ritual’s effects don’t stack; you can’t use it multiple 
times on someone to gain multiple retests. Instead, 
you can only recast it once you’ve used up the retest 
or Fetter substitute.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
73
character pretending to be the original victim, though 
this is recommended only if you implicitly trust the 
roleplaying skills of your victim.
Remember that use of this ritual requires the ex-
penditure of a Blood Trait, plus an additional Blood 
Trait each night (which is important for games that 
run over the course of several nights).
Ritual of Teyolia (Level Five Ritual)
Long ago, Mayan astrologers foretold that the end 
of the world would occur shortly after the end of a 
thousand-year period. The recent return of the Ravnos 
Antediluvian has re-enforced in Pochtli a belief that 
the Mayans were right. He believes that the foretold 
end of the world is, in fact, the inevitable Gehenna. 
In an effort to survive the end of the age, Pochtli and 
his lieutenants developed a means of tearing out the 
hearts of Kindred and preserving within them the 
heart’s blood, or teyolia, of the Kindred so sacrificed. 
When Gehenna comes, Pochtli intends to offer the 
hearts of his victims to the terrible blood gods in an 
effort to have them spare himself and his undead fam-
ily. This terrible rite is unknown to Pisanob Kindred 
beyond Pochtli and his most trusted lieutenants. If 
any Giovanni from apart from the Pisanob get wind of 
this practice, it’s entirely possible the entire Pisanob 
branch of the clan would be extinguished.
To perform this ritual, the Necromancer must 
force a captured vampire to the summit of the Temple 
of Pochtli. There, lying face-up on the temple’s altar, 
the Kindred to be sacrificed has her limbs held by four 
camozotz ghouls. The Necromancer then cuts open 
the victim’s chest with an obsidian dagger, reaches 
inside and tears out the heart, visiting Final Death 
upon the sacrifice. The heart is then preserved in a 
specially prepared vessel, referred to as a chac mool. 
No roll is required. The process is successful unless 
interrupted.
It is possible to diablerize the sacrificed Kindred 
at a later date by drinking the heart’s blood, with all 
the practice’s concomitant benefits and drawbacks. 
It’s also possible that the elder Pisanob might use the 
power inherent in the hearts to fuel even more potent 
necromantic castings… such as the strange but persis-
tent rumors of South American Kindred claiming to 
be one person but looking wholly like another.
Typically a player’s character won’t know this 
ritual. The rite is best used as a specifically gruesome 
end to a character in story terms — a heart stolen 
by this rite is unlikely to ever return to play (since 
Pochtli and company need the hearts for other things) 
and so essentially it’s just a nasty, nasty way to finish 
off a character.


Clanbook: Giovanni
74
MET System: Because this ritual requires no chal-
lenge, all you have to do (only!) is take your victim to 
the Temple of Pochtli — the unique one in Mexico — so 
probably outside of your game’s usual locale, thus taking 
you out of play for a while (clever Storytellers will use 
this travel as an opportunity for another story, with the 
difficulties of smuggling vampires across international 
borders…). Cunning vampires may trick their prospec-
tive prey into “visiting” the temple with promises of 
aid, power, wealth or whatnot, though of course only 
a grisly death awaits.
New Necromantic Rituals
Minestra di Morte (Level One Ritual)
The Necromancer obtains a piece of a dead body 
and simmers it in a pot with half a quart of vampiric 
vitae. To this stew, the Necromancer adds rosemary 
(for remembrance), basil (the funerary herb) and salt 
(the alchemic principle of clarification). After bringing 
the concoction to a full boil, the Necromancer eats it.
If the ritual is successful, the caster can learn 
whether (or if) an individual became a spirito or 
spettro after death. Unfortunately, this information can 
be learned only about the person from whose body the 
“stew meat” was taken.
If the roll to activate this ritual is successful, the 
character discovers whether the subject of the grisly 
rite became a wraith or spectre after death, or if indeed 
she became either.
The blood component is spent progressively through 
the ritual: If the Necromancer takes the blood from 
another Kindred, she doesn’t become partially bound 
from drinking it, nor does she add a point to her blood 
pool. Similarly, if she uses her own blood, her pool 
decreases by a point but does not increase when she 
consumes the soup.
Necromantic vampires without the Eat Food merit 
(see p. 296 of Vampire: The Masquerade) can’t keep 
the soup down, but can still use the ritual and gain the 
information.
MET System: Basic Ritual. You must first obtain 
a chunk from a dead body (remember that very old 
vampires usually crumble to ash and don’t leave suit-
able pieces). Boil this up in a stew, taking the usual 
ritual casting time, then devour it. (Need we mention 
that this is all representative, and we aren’t actually 
advocating real cannibalism?) The soup must use two 
pints of vampiric blood — about two Blood Points’ 
worth. If you succeed in the ritual, you learn whether 
the individual you’ve just physically devoured became 
a ghost after death.
If you somehow devour a chunk from a still-living 
victim — perhaps a severed limb, without knowledge 
of the victim’s eventual fate — you learn only that the 
subject is not a ghost.
The Hand of Glory (Level Two Ritual)
The Hand of Glory is a mummified hand used by 
the Giovanni to anesthetize a home’s residents and, 
thereby, allow the Necromancer free rein to do what 
he will in the residence. It was originally developed by 
thieves dabbling in the Dark Art, and was adapted by 
the Giovanni for similar nefarious purposes.
The creation of the Hand of Glory is a gruesome 
ritual dating back hundreds of years. The Necromancer 
wraps the severed hand of a condemned murderer in 
a shroud, draws it tight to squeeze out any remaining 
blood and preserves the hand in an earthenware jar 
with salt, saltpeter and long peppers. After a fortnight, 
the Giovanni removes the hand and dries it in an oven 
with vervain and fern. At the end of this process, if 
the roll to activate the ritual garners any successes, the 
creation is viable.
To use the Hand of Glory, the vampire first coats 
the fingertips of the mummified hand with a flammable 
substance derived from the fat of a hanged man and 
sets the fingers alight. The Necromancer then recites 
the phrase, “Let all those who are asleep be asleep, 
and let those who are awake be awake.” All mortals 
within a household who are affected fall into a deep 
sleep and cannot be roused (the hand has no effect 
on supernatural creatures or hunters of the Hunter: 
The Reckoning ilk). For each unaffected occupant of 
a home, one finger of the hand will refuse to light. Of 
course, botches may result in all of the fingers being lit 
but no one in the home being asleep. The hand may 
be extinguished at any time by the Necromancer who 
created it. Anyone else wishing to douse the hand must 
use milk to do so. Nothing else works. Once made, 
the Hand of Glory may be reused indefinitely. Effects 
last for one scene.
MET System: Basic Ritual. A Hand of Glory 
serves as an excellent opportunity to play up some 
creepy props, so long as you’re not in a public place. 
System-wise, creation of the hand requires that the 
character secure the appropriate materials (probably 
through the use of Health and Legal Influence) and 
then succeed in a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty 
of seven Traits. Of course, the invasion of a mortal 
home isn’t a common scene in live-action games, but 
one never knows…. Storytellers might set up an op-
portunity to use a Hand of Glory to invade a vampire’s 
haven, for instance, with the power of the hand putting 
all mortals present to sleep.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
75
Be sure not to use the Hand of Glory just to make 
all your players of mortals sit out the game, though! 
This ritual may be best used as a downtime action, al-
lowing a Necromancer to sneak into a specific mortal 
household (or even to determine whether a given 
haven has any supernatural occupants).
Occhio d’Uomo Morto  
(Level Two Ritual)
To cast this ritual, the Necromancer needs an 
eye from a corpse whose absent soul became a spirito 
or a spettro. The eye is ritually prepared in a process 
involving incense, the new moon and a period of 
midnight chanting. The chanting climaxes when the 
Necromancer removes one of her own eyes and replaces 
it with the one from the corpse (fresher is better). 
Kindred healing takes over at that point, sealing the 
eye within the socket. 
If the ritual succeeds, the Necromancer perma-
nently gains the Shroudsight ability (see p. 164 of 
Vampire: The Masquerade). This ability is always 
active and does not require a roll. 
Furthermore, if it was a spettro corpse, the vampire 
can hear the vague murmuring of any spettri in the 
area. This ability isn’t very precise; rather than mind 
reading, it’s more like trying to overhear a low-voiced 
conversation in the next room. With a Perception 
+ Occult roll, the Necromancer can glean a very 
vague impression of what the area spettri are up to. 
Botching this roll may well earn the Necromancer a 
new derangement (at the Storyteller’s discretion), as 
listening in on the evil dead is not a habit conducive 
to mental health. 
This ritual has some major drawbacks, the first 
being that its proper result is hideously ugly. Unless 
the vampire wears sunglasses or finds some other 
way to conceal her eye, her Appearance is reduced 
by one dot.
Also, dead or rotted tissue is not the best for 
normal perception. Any mundane visual Percep-
tion rolls are at +1 difficulty (possibly more if the 
corpse had bad eyesight in life). On the other hand, 
this very blurring offers some protection against 
Dominate and Eyes of the Serpent: These Disci-
plines are used against the dead-eyed Necromancer 
at +1 difficulty.
Most importantly, however, the spirito or spettro 
whose body was desecrated knows it, and very likely 
hates it. The ghost can find the Necromancer possessing 
his eye anywhere, and all wraithly powers used against 


Clanbook: Giovanni
76
the Necromancer by that particular ghost or spectre 
are at –1 difficulty.
MET System: Basic Ritual. You pluck out your 
own (character’s) eye and replace it with the eye of a 
corpse whose soul has become a ghost. If you succeed 
in the ritual challenge, you can permanently see into 
the Shadowlands at will. If the ghost was a spectre, 
you can also make a Mental Challenge against any 
spectre that you can see to discern its next action, 
though this requires an action on your part and if 
you lose you gain a Derangement for the remainder 
of the session. (Pick one at random; a Dementation 
deck is good for this.)
Undergoing this ritual causes you to permanently 
lose one Social Trait and lowers your Social Trait 
maximum by one. You also suffer all the drawbacks 
of the Bad Sight Flaw. However, you gain a one-Trait 
resolution bonus against Dominate and Serpentis: Eyes of 
the Serpent (and other powers that require eye contact).
The ghost whose eye you’ve stolen can automati-
cally locate you and gains a one-Trait resolution bonus 
against you with all of its Arcanoi.
Tempesta Scudo (Level Three Ritual)
Unlike most rituals, Tempesta Scudo can be cast 
speedily. The Necromancer performs a short and awk-
ward dance that ends with her biting through her own 
lip and spitting the blood in a circle around her. All 
spirits’ actions within the circle of blood are made at 
+2 difficulty. All Risen within the circle have a penalty 
to their actions of +1 difficulty.
To cast this ritual successfully, the Necromancer 
must spend one combat turn performing the dance. At 
the end of the turn, she makes a Dexterity + Performance 
roll against difficulty 7 (if done outside of combat, the 
difficulty is only 6). During the next combat turn, she 
bites through her own lips (taking a level of bashing 
damage) and spits (spending one blood point). Then 
the normal ritual roll is made to see whether the power 
takes effect.
MET System: Intermediate Ritual. Despite its 
level, this ritual takes only one turn to cast. Expend 
one Blood Trait and take one level of bashing damage. 
You can delineate a circle three paces in radius around 
you. Any ghost that enters the circle suffers a two-Trait 
resolution penalty on all challenges; Risen suffer a one-
Trait penalty. You may use Performance as the retest 
Ability for this ritual.
Bastone Diabolico (Level Four Ritual)
Casting this ritual is a bit tricky because it requires 
the removal of a leg bone from a living person. The 
donor must survive the removal (at least for a little 
while). The bone is then submerged in molten lead. 
Once it cools, the thin lead coating is inscribed with 
various runes.
The Necromancer then uses this metal-shod bone 
to beat its donor to death while repeating a droning 
Greek chant.
With a successful roll, this ritual produces a 
bastone diabolico or “devil stick.” The stick can be 
activated by anyone who holds it and expends a 
point of Willpower. Activation lasts for a scene, and 
during that time any ghost, spirito or spettro hit with 
the devil stick loses a point from its Passion Pool (if 
you’re using the rules from Wraith: The Oblivion, 
wraiths lose a point of Pathos and spectres lose a point 
of Angst). In addition to its normal effects, this club 
does an additional die of damage when used against 
the walking dead (not vampires), and such damage 
is aggravated. 
Unfortunately for the Necromancer, ghosts can 
sense that the bastone diabolico is bad news, even if 
they don’t know exactly what the thing does. They 
tend to stay away from anybody carrying one, which 
means that all rolls for such a character to use powers 
that summon or attract spirits occur at +1 difficulty.
The Giovanni clan stores many of these cudgels 
in their Venice vaults, and are actually more likely 
to lend one out to a neonate than to teach the 
ritual (after all, kidnapping somebody, mangling 
him and killing him was a lot easier to get away 
with a few hundred years ago). Most older devil 
sticks are made from tibias (for individuals who 
prefer a thinner, faster club) or femurs (for the 
type who like a big bludgeon with a knot on the 
end). Modern Necromancers are just as likely to 
use the patella to create a ghost-punishing weapon 
far easier to conceal.
MET System: Intermediate Ritual. Generally, 
you’ll use a hapless mortal for this ritual; its casting 
kills the subject (since you beat him to death, you 
bastardo). Anyone can use the resulting devil stick by 
expending a Trait of Willpower. For the remainder 
of that scene, the stick causes aggravated damage 
to zombies and other animate dead, causes an extra 
health level of damage to such beings and drains one 
Pathos from any wraith struck or one Angst from a 
spectre. However, so long as you have a devil-stick in 
your possession (or in the same room!), you suffer a 
one-Trait penalty on resolution of all tests to summon 
and compel ghosts with any power.
A devil-stick uses the same Traits and bonuses as a club.
Esilio (Level Five Ritual)
Like Tempesta Scudo, Esilio is a quick and dirty ritual. 
The Necromancer simply speaks five syllables.


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
77
No one can identify the casting language (at least, 
no Giovanni is telling if he has). According to the 
ritual’s oblique history, this power of Necromancy 
came from the bloodline that preceded the Giovanni, 
and that the language is what God gave humankind 
before the confusion of Babel. The legend further 
states that while the particular meaning of the words 
is lost, they are what Caine’s father said to him while 
exiling him to Nod.
Regardless of the truth of the matter, the Words 
of Exile are not spoken lightly. When the ritual 
is cast successfully, it opens a hole within reality 
itself — a rip between the lands of the living and 
the darkest depths of the Underworld. This tear is 
invisible to normal vision, but to Shroudsight it 
looks like a pitch black vortex opening within the 
vampire’s own body (the very few unfortunate enough 
to look into the gap with high levels of Auspex are 
generally unwilling or unable to discuss what they 
beheld within). Any wraith — spirito or spettro — 
clutched to the Kindred’s chest is instantly torn to 
shreds. Grabbing a ghost in this fashion requires a 
Clinch or Tackle maneuver. As usual with destroyed 
spirits, they don’t come back for at least a month, 
if ever. A spirito destroyed in this fashion tends to 
return as a spettro, if it returns at all.
The Necromancer may clutch and destroy a number 
of spirits equal to the number of successes she rolled. 
After that, the vortex closes. It closes at the end of 
the scene if it hasn’t already.
Of course, using one’s body as a portal between 
our world and what a reasonably intelligent person 
might call Hell is neither simple nor healthy. For 
starters, it costs a blood point and a point of Will-
power (which does not give an automatic success 
on the ritual roll). More importantly, each success 
rolled inflicts a level of unsoakable lethal damage 
on the Necromancer. Most importantly, every use 
of Esilio permanently reduces the Necromancer’s 
Humanity by one point.
MET System: Advanced Ritual. Use of Esilio 
takes one turn. You must expend one Willpower Trait 
and one Blood Trait. Any wraith you successfully 
grapple is instantly dispersed and sent screaming 
straight to Hell, to return no sooner than a month 
later (and possibly never). You may maintain the 
portal so long as you sacrifice one health level 
(considered lethal damage that cannot be resisted) 
for each turn that you keep it open, including the 
first turn. You lose one Morality Trait when you 
invoke this ritual (even the Path of Death and the 
Soul finds it reprehensible, seeing as it destroys the 
souls of the dead).
New Merits and Flaws
Merits and Flaws are not appropriate to every 
chronicle. See the Appendix of Vampire: The Mas-
querade for more information on using Merits and Flaws 
in your stories.
Consanguineous Resistance  
(1-pt. Supernatural Merit)
Your character cannot be blood bound by anyone 
who shares his mortal bloodline. That is, if you were 
born into the Giovanni family, you cannot be bound 
by anyone else who was born a Giovanni, though you 
can still be bound by Pisanob of the Giovanni clan, 
or by Kindred of any other clan. Similarly, a Dunsirn 
with Consanguineous Resistance could not be bound 
by others who were born into the mortal Dunsirn fam-
ily, but could be bound by a Milliner of the Giovanni 
clan (for instance).
Incidentally, the Giovanni are extremely suspicious 
of anyone known to manifest this quirk. Although this 
blood-borne aberration hasn’t been documented, a few 
savvy Giovanni have a rough and superstitious idea of 
what it is and does. It’s generally associated with being a 
rebellious young smartass who needs to be put down (this 
is not as unfair as it sounds; by the time a bond resistance 
is really obvious, it’s probably because a punishment isn’t 
working). A character who is discovered to have this 
trait probably earns her sire’s hostility at the very least.
MET System: As described above, you cannot be 
bound by anyone from your own mortal patrilineage. 
This is most useful if other Giovanni of your family are 
in play, of course, and can cause all manner of storyline 
complications if you’re found out.
 Proxy Kissed  
(4-pt. Supernatural Merit)
Before the Embrace, you received the traditional 
Giovanni Proxy Kiss. This means you have one free 
dot of Potence, and the other members of your clan 
tend to be comfortable that you were Embraced in 
“the proper Giovanni fashion.” On the downside, you 
are partially blood bound to someone — probably 
someone other than your sire. Given the way the 
anziani like to balance things out, you may well have 
been Embraced by someone who dislikes or disagrees 
with your domitor.
You may take this Merit a second time (for a total 
of 8 points) to gain a free dot of Fortitude, indicating a 
very long service as a ghoul. If you do this, it means that 
you’re: (a) partially bound to three Kindred, (b) one-
third bound to one and two-thirds bound to another, 
or (c) fully bound to the Kindred who Embraced you, 
who will probably be in deep shit with the elders — if 
she isn’t an elder herself.


Clanbook: Giovanni
78
MET System: You begin play with a partial blood 
bond to one other Giovanni Kindred (if an appropriate 
one isn’t in play, the Storyteller should work with you 
to come up with one). You gain the Basic Potence level 
Prowess in addition to your other Disciplines, and you 
can learn the first Intermediate level with your starting 
Discipline levels. If you spend eight Free Traits for this 
Merit, you come into play with partial bonds to two 
Giovanni Kindred or a full bond to one, and you also 
gain the Basic Fortitude Discipline Endurance.
Sanguine Incongruity  
(5-pt. Physical Merit)
Giovanni with this atavism are few and far 
between — fewer than a dozen reported instances 
have occurred since the clan rose from the ashes of 
the clan that preceded them. Kindred possessing it 
do not bear the Curse of Lamia; their Kiss causes no 
more damage than the blood loss itself. These vam-
pires acquire a peculiar pallor upon their Embrace, 
however — they look like corpses, and no amount 
of blood ingestion can flush their features (as other 
vampires are able to do). Giovanni with this Merit 
are afforded wide berth, as the Giovanni tend to be 
quite superstitious about it.
MET System: You have a peculiar cadaverous ap-
pearance that gives you a one-Trait resolution penalty 
on all Social Challenges relying on Appearance-related 
Traits. You should use special make-up to represent 
this: blue around the cheeks and lips, black under the 
eyes and a general white around the rest of the face is a 
good start. However, you do not suffer from the normal 
Giovanni disadvantage.
Inbred (1-pt. to 5-pt. Flaw)
Inbreeding, a common occurrence among the 
incestuous Giovanni clan, can take many forms, 
and this Flaw is best discussed with the Storyteller 
before a player takes it for her character. The In-
bred Flaw covers all manner of physical, mental 
and emotional defects. A one-point Inbreeding is 
something simple and unobtrusive, such as eyes 
too close together or an underbite. A three-point 
Inbreeding is more severe: a congenital health 
condition (for mortals) or a crippling physical 
deformity. Five-point Inbreedings are grossly 
disabling or emotionally crippling — everything 
from uselessly atrophied legs to a permanent De-
rangement, decided on mutually by the player and 
Storyteller. Inbred conditions may or may not be 
immediately discernible, though their point cost 
should be relative to their magnitude.
MET System: The flaws of an Inbred Giovanni 
must be worked out with a Storyteller. For one Trait, 
you suffer a one-Trait resolution penalty on Social 
Challenges, because you have an unwholesome or 
flawed physical appearance. For three Traits, you suffer 
this penalty and also a one-Trait resolution penalty on 
Physical Challenges due to congenital health defects. 
For five Traits, you suffer from an effect equivalent to 
one other Flaw chosen by the Storyteller in addition 
to the previous hindrances; maybe you’re also Lame, 
or you have an extra Derangement.
Shadow Walker  
(6-pt. Supernatural Flaw)
The Giovanni clan is by its nature inexorably 
tied to the realm beyond the sudario. Giovanni suf-
fering from this Flaw are so tied to the Shadowlands 
that even in the lands of the living they are forced 
to interact with the world of the dead on a nightly 
basis. To shadow walkers, objects in the Underworld 
are as real as anything to be found in the physical 
world. Such vampires find that the ghosts of walls 
may impede their flight, ghostly objects may strike 
them, and wraiths’ powers work as if the Kindred 
were on the far side of the Shroud. This Flaw is 
similar to the Ash Path power Dead Hand except 
that Shadow Walker is always on and it in no way 
allows the character possessing it to perceive be-
yond the Shroud — see p. 164 of Vampire: The 
Masquerade for details.
The Storyteller may determine that certain 
Shadowlands topography interferes with you. Unless 
you have a Merit or power to do so, you can’t see 
into the Shadowlands, so you have to be careful in 
feeling your way about — essentially a blind man 
subject to the Underworld landscape. You may be 
restricted by immaterial walls or environmental ef-
fects at a Storyteller’s discretion. More importantly, 
wraiths can affect you directly — a wraith attack-
ing you inflicts damage without any special means 
on his part. Conversely, you can affect things in 
the Shadowlands with your physical body, though 
chances are that you do so blindly. Your possessions 
and weapons do not have this special facility, so it’s 
possible for you to swing a sword that passes through 
a ghostly wall, only to have your hand stopped by 
the wall, or to have a gun that can’t shoot ghosts 
whereas their relic guns can put holes in you. Ob-
viously, this Flaw is appropriate only for a game in 
which interaction with wraiths is fairly common or 
a Storyteller wants to pay above-average attention 
to the Underworld.
MET System: You are fully subject to the Shad-
owlands and the ghosts there. Ghostly architecture 
blocks you and wraithly attacks can injure you. You 
can’t actually see the Underworld without the use of 


Chapter Two: It Runs in the Family
79
other powers, but you can be impeded by it. When 
and whether this occurs is a matter for Storyteller 
discretion, but it can be quite a hindrance if you’re 
trying to, say, attend a meeting and a ghostly wall bars 
entry to the room, or if you need to flee an enemy 
while ghosts also lash out at you. Typically, a Narrator 
should take an opportunity once per game to manifest 
some inconvenience, causing one of your actions to 
fail automatically. This failure might be as simple as 
“You can’t flee because you run into a wall” or perhaps, 
“Your attempt to Dominate the mortal fails because a 
ghost suddenly shrieks and begins firing a gun at you.” 
For the one challenge, you fail automatically, retests 
and overbids notwithstanding.


Clanbook: Giovanni
80


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
81
Chapter Three: 
Shareholders and 
Charnel Houses
One should judge a man mainly from his depravities. Virtues 
can be faked. Depravities are real.
— Klaus Kinski
At once revered and reviled, the Giovanni have a grace 
and a sickness unrivalled by any other clan. What leads them to 
their greatest achievements is the same desire that leads them 
to their most vulgar indulgence. Is it the case with all great men 
and women? Does every saint hide a secret sin? And if he does, 
does the vilest of sinners harbor within him the light of genius?
It is almost invariably so with the Giovanni. Whether 
tied to Catholic guilt, centuries of ancestor worship, mis-
placed shame or carnal desire, a Giovanni must earn her 
right to excess.
Let us, then, see who and how.


Clanbook: Giovanni
82
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conniver
DEMEANOR: Bravo
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Single Blood 
Prodigy
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Necromancy
Allies
Generation
Mentor
Resources
Retainers
Single-Blood Prodigy
Quote: You won’t understand, and I’ve got better things to do 
than explain, for fuck’s sake.
Prelude: Avoiding death altogether takes a lot more than 
luck. You have to be lucky and smart enough to be chosen. That 
means you have to be worthy. Almost no one is worthy.
You are worthy.
You’re smarter than any living person you’ve ever met, 
and you’ve always known it. Sure, sometimes the fumble-
fucking dumbasses got the better of you due to the caprices of 
circumstance or physical development. Sure, they made your 
life pretty goddamn uncomfortable, but that’s their nature. 
Stupidity always hates intelligence. Blindness always envies 
sight. Part of their souls can almost reach for a light that 
would for them be a blinding revelation and which is for you 
just common thought. They can sense your illumination, but 
if those stunted perceptions were ever allowed to rise to the 
level of consciousness, the despair would be so intense that 
they’d probably swallow their own tongues to die on the spot, 
hoping for oblivion the whole time. They can’t let themselves 
understand you: To do so would be to utterly condemn them-
selves. Easier to torment.
Only your fam-
ily — they’re almost as 
illuminated as you — 
understands the truth. 
They’ve finally seen 
that the only sensible action is to remove you from the drab and stifling world of 
“life” with its schools and its malls and its WWF Smackdown, to unlock the doors 
of immortality and give you an eternity to comprehend the third way between being 
and nothingness. 
You’re learning fast and are only going to speed up as you go. Woe to 
anyone in your way.
Concept: You’re shockingly arrogant and almost smart enough to 
make it stick. You’ve been fascinated by death and disdainful of life for 
as long as you’ve been conscious. Frankly, giving up life and the pretense 
of humanity has been the best thing that ever happened to you. 
Roleplaying Hints: Necromancy matters. The Giovanni family 
(and, to a lesser extent, the clan) matters. Money is just a means to an 
end and you can’t be bothered with it. In fact, if it’s not Necromancy, 
it’s not worth a moment of your supremely enlightened thought. 
If you don’t understand something, it must be because it’s not 
worth understanding. You’re somewhat surprised that people 
dislike you, but you really don’t give a fuck about them anyway.
Equipment: Black ritual robes, or whatever other clothes 
the servants hand you. PCS phone, laptop computer, strangle 
cord, PDA, a chauffeur and a procurer to take care of the ugly 
details of existence. 


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
83
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Single Blood Prodigy
Giovanni
11th
Conniver
Bravo
 Dominate (Command)
 Necromancy (Sepulchre Path — Insight
Summon Soul, Compel Soul)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
Ingratiating x 2
Persuasive x 2
 
Discerning
 Intuitive x 2
Knowledgeable x 3
 Patient
Academics
 Computer
Etiquette
Agile
Steady
Tough
Occult
Subterfuge 
 
Allies x 2
Generation x 2
Mentor x 2
 Resources x 3
Retainers x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Hurried Embrace
Giovanni
12th
Conniver
Child
 Dominate (Command, 
Mesmirism, Forgetful Mind)
 Potence (Prowess, Might)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Alluring
Beguiling x 2
Empathetic
Attentive x 2
Creative
Knowledgeable
Patient
Academics
 Etiquette
Empathy
Dexterous
Quick
 Tireless
Streetwise
Subterfuge 
 
 
Allies x 1
Generation x 1
 Influence (Health x 1)
, Mentor x 1
 Resources x 2
Expressive 
Reflective x 2


Clanbook: Giovanni
84
Hurried Embrace
Quote: I just wish someone had told me how much easier 
feeding is when you kill them first.
Prelude: You still haven’t recovered.
Before it all started, life was good. Sure, your parents 
sent you off to a private school with no boys, and the 
snotty, stuck-up bitches there made fun of you for being 
“new money,” and when you came home your parents never 
let you go out unaccompanied because it “wasn’t safe.” But 
you had cute clothes, lots of money (new or old, money is 
money) and servants who had to put up with any shit you 
decided to dish at them. 
Then the world went mad.
It was El Día de Los Muertos — “the Day of the Dead.” At 
first you thought it was an earthquake, when the dishes started 
breaking and everything started flying around. But earthquakes 
don’t make walls bleed, don’t make sounds like howling voices. 
Uncle Hugo told you that the Pisanob rule the dead, but you’d 
never actually seen the dead until that night. Then you watched 
their translucent forms fling your 
brother down the stairs; chase your 
cook away with a burning, airborne 
tablecloth; hoist your father into 
the air and tear at his clothes…. 
You ran then, but the roots in 
the garden became hands, pulling 
you to the ground. The spirit that 
you saw next looked no more substantial than cigarette smoke, but the hammer it drove 
between your eyes was completely solid.
The next thing you knew was hunger. You were drinking from the corpses of your 
servants even before you realized what you were doing. Uncle Hugo was standing above 
you, frowning. “Dulce,” he said, “I wanted your initiation to be a beautiful thing, not 
this rushed and ugly mess. Still, better this than for your Pisanob soul to fall into the 
hands of those spirits.”
You’re nervous, and you miss your parents, but you’re also looking forward to your 
lessons. You can think of a few things you’d like to do to the spirits who attacked 
your home. Not to mention those hair-pulling bitches at school.…
Concept: You were a spoiled, immature 16-year-old girl who hadn’t grown up 
and who now never will. You’ll never kiss your first boy with living lips, you’ll 
never really understand making love, you’ll never have that final growth spurt. 
But you’ll also never miss what you never experienced.
Roleplaying Hints: Everyone over 30 is either really stupid or really scary. 
You put up a tough front, but don’t forget that underneath you’re a young 
girl who watched her family die and saw that hammer coming straight at 
her head. Just when everyone has dismissed you as a bubblegum-brained 
twit, you can come through with a perception that’s surprisingly accurate 
and unspoiled.
Equipment: Clothes from BCBG and Betsey Johnson, Vespa scooter, 
Victoria Ash CDs.
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conniver
DEMEANOR: Child
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Hurried Embrace
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Potence
Allies
Generation
Mentor
Resources


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
85
Bitter Matron
Quote: Oh, don’t worry about me at all. I’ll just sit here in the 
dark and knit you a fucking sweater, you ungrateful little whore!
Prelude: You were raised in the Mausoleum, at the very 
heart of the Giovanni family. Although your family tried to keep 
you as insulated as possible, there are limits even to immortals’ 
powers of concealment — especially when they have so much 
to hide. By the time you were 12, you knew about vampires. 
By the time you were 14, you not only knew the facts about 
ghouls, you eagerly awaited the honor of the Proxy Kiss yourself.
You kept waiting. “Maybe next year,” you were told. “In a 
few years, when you reach your full growth.” Then, “Perhaps 
after you have a child or two.” As you aged, their excuses became 
more elaborate — they praised your clear thinking (unmuddied 
by blood bonds and vitae addiction), they spoke of the places 
where a 40-year old woman was acceptable but a younger woman 
would excite comment.
You became a ghoul at the humiliating age of 55 thanks to 
your own son. You ought to be partially bound to at least a dozen 
vampires because of your desperate efforts to stave off further 
age. Now, at last, they’ve 
given you your due. At 
last, you’ve received the 
Embrace and can be 
considered an equal by 
the other Powers That 
Be in the clan. Except that 
everyone in Venice knows that anybody Embraced so old must be unimportant, fit only 
to admiringly obey the orders of the superiors who have her bound.
They don’t suspect that you hate them as much as you love them. But when you 
asked permission to go to America — “the Land of the Free,” after all — to watch 
over those rebellious double-bloods, they might have begun to suspect you to be 
one old dog with a few new tricks, after all. 
Concept: The family is everything to you, and if they’d only appreciate 
all you have to offer you could be a lot more to it. You just want the respect 
due to you as Kindred and a Giovanni. You’ve paid your dues a hundred 
times over, and you’ll be doubly damned if you’re going to let anyone 
beneath you have an easier time of it.
Roleplaying Hints: Be respectful yet pushy to the authorities imme-
diately over you. Be fawning and admiring toward the real elders — the 
ones even you rarely saw in the Mausoleum, and who therefore never 
asked you to do anything demeaning or humiliating. Be emotionally 
ruthless to your inferiors.
Equipment: Liz Claiborne dresses from a year or two ago, sensible 
shoes, a Coach purse with a Sig-Sauer P-230 handgun inside. Also, a nice 
stout aluminum cane. 
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Autocrat
DEMEANOR: Curmudgeon
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 9th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Bitter Matron
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Necromancy
Potence
Allies
Contacts
Generation
Mentor
Resources
Retainers


Clanbook: Giovanni
86
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Bitter Matron
Giovanni
9th
Autocrat
Curmudgeon
 Dominate (Command)
Necromancy (Sepulchre Path — Insight)
 Potence (Prowess)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Commanding x 2
Dignified x 2
Diplomatic
Attentive x 2
Knowledgeable
Patient x 2
Etiquette
Expression
Intimidation
Tenacious x 2
Resilient
Occult
 Subterfuge  
 
Allies x 4
Contacts x 2
 Generation x 4
 Influence (Health x 1)
Intimdating
Persuasive 
, Mentor x 1
Resources x 3
 Retainers x 1
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Diplomat Provocateur
Giovanni
13th
Loner
Rogue
Dominate (Command, Mesmirism)
Potence (Prowess)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Alluring x 2
 Charismatic
Eloquent
Alert
Clever
 Creative
Cunning
Academics
Expression
Investigation
Enduring
 Graceful
Wiry
Politics
Subterfuge 
 
Allies x 1
Contacts x 1
Influence (Finance x 1)
 Resources x 3
Persuasive x 2
Seductive x 2
Shrewd x 2


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
87
Diplomat Provocateur
Quote: “Necro-incestuous Mafiosi?” Really? And do you believe 
everything your sire tells you?
Prelude: Whether you were getting a biscotti from Aunt 
Gina before dinner or getting Cousin Angelo to put lotion on 
your back, your most powerful weapon has always been your smile. 
People are fun: They can do a lot of nice things for you. It’s 
particularly nice if you can get theirs before you have to give 
them yours, but haggling runs in the family and you suspect you 
got a double dose of it. 
You received the Proxy Kiss from Angelo when you were 20. 
(He always had a soft spot for you when he was alive. Or maybe it 
could be better described as a hard spot. Anyway, he recognized 
talent.) As his ghoul servant in Barcelona, some vampires from 
other clans tried to lure you away. Sure, they had the power to 
make you want to please them, but they never seemed to realize 
that you also wanted to please yourself. 
Angelo met a bad end; oh, well. You were instrumental in 
directing the vendetta against his assassins — but more, you were 
essential in making sure that the 
most important Kindred 
in Barcelona felt that 
the clan’s killers 
were doing the 
outsiders a 
favor by 
“enforcing the Masquerade.” Smoothing things over earned you your 
recent Embrace, and you’re now in good with both your family and 
those charming innocents in the Camarilla. 
You weren’t really given a choice about your Embrace, and there’s a 
lot of things you miss about life. You miss biscotti and sunbathing, not 
to mention sex. But in a lot of ways it’s easier to sleep with someone 
for the family’s sake now that you don’t really feel anything… now 
that you’re dead. 
Concept: You’re naturally charming, cute and a good listener. 
If you’d been born into another family, you’d probably have grown 
up to be a great sales associate, or even a talk show host. As it is, 
you’re playing “impartial third party” to the Camarilla on behalf 
of your elders. 
Roleplaying Hints: Be nice to people in ways that don’t cost 
anything. Be disarmingly honest with the people who are suspi-
cious of you: Even if it doesn’t bring them around, it impresses anyone 
watching. You’re used to getting your way because people naturally want to 
please you. If thwarted, pout but don’t make a big deal of it: You’ll always 
have tomorrow night.
Equipment: Versolato evening gowns, PCS phone, automatic pistol, 
BMW 330 convertible, roofies
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Loner
DEMEANOR: Rogue
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Diplomat
Provocateur
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Potence
Allies
Contacts
Resources


Clanbook: Giovanni
88
Dunsirn Bully
Quote: Go lick your mother’s piss-flaps, you stupid cunt!
Prelude: You never had to stand on the dole, but that didn’t 
mean you were pampered. No, quite the contrary; your family 
life was one that could have benefited from a few of its members 
having to stand in line to collect financial aid. It would have 
given them less time to lock you in the refrigerator or stomp 
you toothless in celebration of an Aberdeen victory.
Still, you took your licks like a growing boy should and 
ultimately inherited all of the perks that came with the Dunsirn 
family name, including money and respect. Frankly, it was about 
time for you to contribute a little hooliganism of your own. You 
bought into the underbelly of the family business and found a 
place beside the same cousins who had “contributed” to your 
toughening-up into the man you had become. Shortly thereafter, 
you became something else altogether.…
You work for one of the off-the-books branches of the 
Dunsirn family. While your white-shirted aunts and uncles 
may be owed a million debts, it’s up to lads like you to go col-
lect them. You’re one of the Gents of 
Grampian, a respected rowdy and 
one of the terrors of the Whiskey 
Trail. So long as everyone knows 
it, you’re on top of your game.
Concept: You have a re-
markably bright disposition for 
a Kindred — the dour mood that so many of your elders seem to labor under has no hold on 
you. It’s not because you’re some thick-witted mooncalf, though. You’re just glad finally to be 
dealing out the drubbings instead of taking them.
Roleplaying Hints: As rough-and-tumble as you’ve become, old habits die hard. 
You’ll never be an alpha dog. You’re better off doing what you’re told and you know 
it. If someone smarts off to you, pummel them, but if they’re actually brave enough 
to stand up to you… uh, it’s probably because they’re tough enough to back it up. 
Better to stand down and not have your teeth kicked in again. And if anyone 
thinks that makes you a coward, well… they probably didn’t have it as rough as 
you did when they were younger. They don’t know.
Equipment: Track suit, burlap bag with doorknobs, wad of cash
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conformist
DEMEANOR: Bravo
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 10th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Dunsirn Bully
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Potence
Allies
Contacts
Generation
Resources


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
89
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Dunsirn Bully
Giovanni
13th
Conformist
Bravo
 Dominate (Command)
Potence (Prowess, Might, Vigor)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Brawny
Tough x 2
Quick
Alert
 Cunning
Determined
Shrewd x 2 
Brawl
 Drive
Firearms
Enduring
 Graceful
Wiry
 Intimidation
Melee 
 
Allies x 2
Contacts x 2
 Generation x 3
Influence (Health x 1)
 Robust x 2
Vigorous
 Resources x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Aide de Camp
Giovanni
11th
Bon Vivant
Traditionalist
 Dominate (Command,
 Mesmirism, Forgetful Mind)
Fortitude (Endurance)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charming
Dignified
Genial
Dedicated
Knowledgeable x 2
Observant x 2
 Patient x 2
Academics
Finance
Law
Stalwart x 2
Tireless
  Politics
Subterfuge
 
Contacts x 2
Generation x 2
Influence (Finance x 1, Political x 1)
 Ingratiating x 2
 Resources x 4


Clanbook: Giovanni
90
Aide-De-Camp
Quote: We do have one option — don’t tell anyone I offered 
you this deal, now; it’s our little secret — that will let you come out of 
this smelling like a rose. It won’t be easy or legal, but it will be effec-
tive. I’m going to need to call on you for a favor at some point, too.
Prelude: How the hell can anyone in the family not know 
that the whole genealogy is riddled with vampires? Even if they 
don’t see the situation for what it really is, even the children 
have to know that something’s not quite right. Then again, it’s 
what the Giovanni are brought up knowing… nature versus 
nurture and all that.
Luckily for you, you were clever enough to catch on quite 
early. You took the Proxy Kiss at 16 and were Embraced at the 
ripe old age of 20 after turning in your… uncle?… when he 
came to you and asked if you wanted in on a gun deal he was 
working out with some Sabbat slobs in New York. Of course, 
you took over for him after the anziani had their way with him, 
but nobody knows that. At least, you hope no one knows.
Your strong sense of what was right for the family earned 
you the accolades of many ancillae and elders — you were one 
of the up-and-comers. Having been Embraced so young, you 
still had a sense for what the “profitable youth demographic” 
wanted. You pushed meth and E just before they became huge 
— so you made valuable inroads on the drug end. Pushing 
put you in contact with the local gangs, who could always use 
guns and drugs of their own. You had quite literally become the 
Giovanni wunderkind, making money with the Midas touch.
That’s why it’s so strange that your elders have asked 
you to be the clan’s liaison to the Camarilla. What 
a fucking dead-end position! Overnight you went 
from one to watch to last night’s news. It couldn’t 
have been anything you did — the whole “reassign-
ment” stinks of somebody’s vendetta, somewhere. 
When you find out who it is, you’ll make them pay 
for squandering these past few years of eternity.
Concept: Status came quickly for you and vanished 
almost as rapidly. Your silver tongue and savvy are assets 
in your new role as the prince’s envoy. In the end, though, 
you’ve learned all too well how downright mercenary this 
“Kindred” thing is. Now your loyalty is to yourself, and 
you’ll play for the Camarilla or the Giovanni (or the Sab-
bat, should you run into them again)… whoever’s worth 
the most comfort is who you’ll stick with.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re playing a ridiculously 
dangerous game and you know it — once either side 
knows that you’re not even worth the meager trust they’ve 
placed in you, it’ll all be over. It’s a shame that you’re 
such a burnout at an early age. You had much to offer 
the family. But fuck them — they had their chance. 
Until they or someone else catches you in the middle 
of this week’s double-cross, you’ll live the high unlife.
Equipment: Zegna wardrobe, new Mercedes on 
short-term lease, manila envelope full of incriminating 
snapshots, aluminum baseball bat
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Bonvivant
DEMEANOR: Traditionalist
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Aide de Camp
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Fortitude
Contacts
Generation
Resources
Status


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
91
Pisanob Grave Robber
Quote: Here’s 100 dollars American. Come back in an hour 
and don’t tell anyone I was here.
Prelude: Four days a week you stole your food, but some-
times only three, like when the church had a holiday meal. You 
clothes were whatever someone left hanging on the clothesline. 
Once you were old enough to drink — 12 — cerveza came 
either from behind one of the tourists’ bars or from the hotels 
while the help tried to carry in the deliveries. You had no future 
beyond being another urchin in the sprawling hell of one of 
the largest cities on Earth.
That’s when you met your new patroun. He took you off 
the street, gave you clean clothes, fed you. All he wanted in 
return was some help procuring “specimens.” He’d even help you 
learn his new “Black Science.” For a brief time, you struggled 
with the scope of your new duties — stealing bodies wasn’t 
something a God-fearing boy should do. In the end, though, 
you decided that God didn’t know what things were like outside 
of Heaven. You did what you had to, and if it meant you would 
be Damned, so be it.
Nobody gets a break. 
That’s how the Cainite 
world works, especially here 
in Mexico City, with all 
these blood-glutted Sabbat 
running around, 
breaking legs 
and biting off heads. It wasn’t any different for you when you were mortal, 
and things haven’t changed since you died.
Concept: You are learning the Pisanob’s new faith every night with 
the help of your sire. What you are doing is undeniably evil, but some-
times God needs evil to make the good worthwhile. Anyway, the sire 
says too much introspection isn’t good for a boy in your position. You 
can’t quite tell, but you think he’s being condescending. After all, he 
seems to spend a great deal of time thinking and writing and reading. 
He’s probably just being stingy. Either that or he thinks you’re too 
stupid to do what he does. Until you figure it out, you do what the sire 
says, bringing him the bodies and leaving those girls in the pile alone.
Roleplaying Hints: You know that being Damned means more 
than just running around and digging up the dead, but the sire isn’t 
showing you. He has been good to you, but you know that the other 
vampiros don’t do what you do. The sire says they’re all wicked and 
going to Hell, but they say all Cainites are already going to Hell, 
anyway. Wouldn’t it be better to do what you wanted instead of 
fetching dead people when the sire told you to? It’s a little scary 
to think about, but it might be worth the risk.
Equipment: Secondhand blazer and khakis, shovel, 
rosary
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Deviant
DEMEANOR: Survivor
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 9th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Pisanob Grave
Robber
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Necromancy
Potence
Contacts
Generation
Mentor
Resources


Clanbook: Giovanni
92
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Pisanob Grave Robber
Giovanni
9th
Deviant
Survivor
 Necromancy (Sepulchre Path —Insight)
 Potence (Prowess, Might)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Beguiling
Genial
Witty
Alert
 Attentive x 2
Disciplined
 Vigilant
Brawl
Medicine
Occult
Brawny x 2
Dexterous
Energetic
 Stealth
Streetwise 
 
Contacts x 3
Generation x 4
Mentor x 2
Resources x 2
 Ingratiating x 2
 Retainer x 1
Quick
Robust
Rugged
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Degenerate
Giovanni
11th
Deviant
Rebel
 Dominate (Command, Mesmirism)
Necromancy (Sepulchre Path — Insight)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Charismatic x 2
Charming
 Ingratiating x 2
Discerning
Knowledgeable
Shrewd
Academics
 Computer
 Etiquette
Agile
Enduring x 2
Tough
 Law
 Subterfuge 
 
Fame x 1
Generation x 2
Herd x 4
Influence (High Society x 2, Occult x 1)
Magnetic x 2
 Resources x 5
 Retainers x 4
Wiry


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
93
The Degenerate
Quote: Yes, I’m quite aware that you’re the prince. I was 
wondering how long it would be before you introduced yourself.
Prelude: In your experience, people respect that which 
they could never consider themselves doing. The poor respect 
the rich, the rich respect the famous, the famous respect the 
powerful. Only the most exceptional command wealth, fame 
and power at once. As you were born into that caste, you had 
to try even harder to distinguish yourself. After all, what good 
was being rich, famous and influential if all your peers were, too?
To that end, you turned to taboo. In the game of social 
one-upmanship, you set a far bolder standard than any of your 
compatriots. Let them have their whores and their designers 
drugs behind their respectable façades. Once your parents had 
“gone,” you forced your sister to bear your daughter — and then 
forced your daughter to bear you a son. Such delectable debase-
ment! Such ostentatious delight! It set your veins on fire like 
the cocaine you shot into your member just to say you did it!
Eventually, though, your acquaintances grew disgusted 
and eschewed your company or followed in your 
tracks and died trying to keep up. 
Looking back upon your life, you 
see that you have accomplished 
little in the way of lasting 
import beyond spending your 
family’s lucre. Now that you’re 
dead — oh, fuck it. You may 
change some night, but it won’t 
be tonight.
Driver! On to the senator’s party!
Concept: You have difficulty 
distinguishing between positive and 
negative attention. In fact, in your 
mind, little differentiation exists be-
tween the two. Disgust is the same as 
envy; shock the same as appreciation. 
Somewhere deep inside, the rational part 
of you realizes that you are rapidly sinking 
into your own hell; you slowly cease to exist 
as a person, becoming instead the mere sum of 
your misbehavior. Is that the ultimate fame? Or 
the ultimate failure?
Roleplaying Hints: You are the star, and if 
you’re not, you will upstage him. Unlife is a com-
petition for finite glamour, and no one remembers 
the loser. Be careful with this character: Don’t let 
the character’s immaturity overshadow his role in 
the chronicle. He exists ultimately at the whim of 
others, and his inclusion in a story should not be used 
as an excuse for a player with similar needs for attention 
to hoard the chronicle’s spotlight.
Equipment: Yes
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Deviant
DEMEANOR: Rebel
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Degenerate
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Necromancy
Fame
Generation
Herd
Influence
Resources
Retainers
Status


Clanbook: Giovanni
94
Fiduciary Wizard
Quote: We can buy out that annoying Toreador’s lien for a 
dime and write off the bad debt as tax credit. It’s beautiful — we’ll 
make money before we own the place even a single night.
Prelude: You know how your relatives spend money. The 
problem is, that money’s gotta come from somewhere. The 
Giovanni had always looked after its own, and when you became 
old enough, you wanted to do your part to pay it back.
You began the journey into unlife with the Proxy Kiss, as 
normal. Within a few years, your creative accounting and ability 
to see opportunity in crisis earned you some significant atten-
tion from the anziani and their broods. The Giovanni Kindred 
watched, wide-eyed, as you bought banks, rolled their assets into 
other banks, and then parlayed those investments into phantom 
principal seats on their boards of directors. Hundreds of years of 
old-fashioned investment built a strong foundation upon which 
you could stage your lucrative New Economy gambles. All it 
took was budella and a little luck.
The payoff wasn’t quite what you had anticipated. Indeed, 
the Embrace was much more like 
punishment than a reward, all of its 
pomp notwithstanding. You view 
what it has given you, however, 
as all-new assets you can bring 
to bear while practicing the art 
of the deal. Kindred society is 
very much like an investor’s 
club — these people can’t work day jobs and have to be around forever. Knowing that, you 
can take their money and use it to make a bit for yourself and the family, and, if you’re smart, 
pay yourself more than your “clients.”
Concept: You love the thrill of making a deal. Other people and Kindred help 
you fulfill your purpose. When you meet them, you take their assets and turn them 
into profit.
Roleplaying Hints: You’re no car salesman; you have grace and style. Offer advice 
willingly, but let your success speak louder than your words. Introduce yourself to 
everyone, as you can never have too many contacts or be a part of too many 
networks. Should the unthinkable happen — a contract goes belly up or 
money vanishes overnight — look for the opportunity left in its wake 
rather than stammering out apologies.
Equipment: Valentino wardrobe, new Bentley, reservations at Fauchon, 
Wall Street Journal, Fast Company
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conniver
DEMEANOR: Visionary
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 9th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Fiduciary Wizard
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Allies
Contacts
Generation
Herd
Influence
Resources
Status


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
95
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Failure
Giovanni
9th
Survivor
Competitor
 Dominate (Command, Mesmirism
 Forgetful Mind)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Diplomatic
Expressive x 2
Persuasive x 2
Alert x 2
Cunning x 2
Dedicated
Knowledgeable
Academics
Computer
Finance
Stalwart
Quick x 2
Robust
 Law
Subterfuge 
 
Generation x 4
Influence (Finance x 1)
Resources x 1
Rational
Vigorous
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
SELF
ELF
ELF
ELF
ELF- C
- C
- C
- C
- CONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL
ONTROL/ I
/ I
/ I
/ I
/ INSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
NSTINCT
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Fiduciary Wizard
Giovanni
9th
Conniver
Visionary
 Dominate (Command, 
Mesmerism, Forgetful Mind)
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Diplomatic
Eloquent
Expressive
Insightful
Knowledgeable x 2
Observant x 2
Patient
Academics
Computer
Finance
Tireless
Wiry x 2
 Investigation
Subterfuge
 
Allies x 3
Contacts x 2
Generation x 4
Herd x 1
 Genial
Persuasive
 Influence
 (Finance x 3, 
Underworld x 1)
 Resources x 4
Vigilant


Clanbook: Giovanni
96
Failure
Quote: I used to be a big shot like you, kid. Now I’m shovel-
ing shit in Palermo. Let that be a lesson to you: Never let them see 
you lose.
Prelude: It all happened so quickly: The invitation to 
dinner, the Proxy Kiss, the Embrace, the haven on the Riviera. 
Then you had one bad month, and everything went to shit. 
Unions in the States. Textiles from the East tripled in cost. 
Even the fucking freight company you used went under. A 
27-percent profit margin vanished almost immediately under 
a seven-figure debt.
Needless to say, the anziani weren’t impressed. None of them 
would back your next play. Nobody wanted a once-successful 
neonate whose greatest legacy was the number of partners he’d 
dragged into his own cluster fuck. Even your mother turned you 
out of her haven once it became a social burden to have you 
lingering around the villa.
You decided to start over. 
Not like it was a choice, 
really. A second cousin 
offered to put you up as 
long as you managed the 
house for him. Swal-
lowing your pride, you 
accepted. It’s going to be 
a long, hard journey 
back into favor, 
but it’s not as if you don’t have forever.
Concept: Grin and fucking bear it. You do what you’re told, but you 
keep your eyes open for any chance to get out of your cousin’s house. 
You have to temper your enthusiasm with good judgment. After all, it’s 
better to burst back onto the scene than to nickel-and-dime your way 
up the ladder. In the end , you’re probably doomed to failure, but hope 
remains alive even if you haven’t.
Roleplaying Hints: You’ve learned the value of humility and hard 
work, so you aren’t afraid to get your hands dirty. Take duty upon your 
shoulders, but only if the payoff is immediate and obvious. Some say 
you’re your own worst enemy, but they’ve got silver spoons in their mouths. 
Measure twice, cut once. The seven habits of highly successful people are.…
Equipment: Country estate work clothes, beaten pickup, garden implements
Self-Control/Instinct
Courage____________
______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Survivor
DEMEANOR: Competitor
CLAN: Giovanni
GENERATION: 9th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Failure
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
MERITS
H
ATH
UMANITY
/FLAWS
/P
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Dominate
Generation
Resources


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
97
Cugini di Sangue
Paolo Sardenzo
Background: Paolo Sardenzo almost had it all, but be-
tween family politics, vengeful ghosts and two World Wars, 
he managed to lose most of it.
Paolo used to be a seductively charming young man 
with a knack for saying the right thing and an interest 
in the diabolical arts. A Giovanni on his mother’s side, 
the clan gave him the Proxy Kiss in 1821 and Embraced 
him in 1867. 
Sardenzo the ghoul was a diplomat, using his connec-
tions with the Carbonari insurgents to tilt the balance of 
power between the Camarilla and the Sabbat as the factions 
struggled for influence on the Italian peninsula. He and his 
domitor Diego had their eyes on mortal politics more than 
Kindred ones, however. While the two great sects were using 
kine politics as a means toward Kindred ends, the Giovanni 
were doing just the opposite — using Kindred struggles to 
shape kine politics to their liking. 
The Giovanni — especially those whose memories went 
back to the nights of the doges and the merchant princes — 
were Venetian patriots, and in the 1820s they were sick of 
being occupied by Austria. Furthermore, as merchants they 
wanted a constitution that protected individual rights from 
abuses by kings and nobles. It took a while, but by 1861 all of 
Italy was united — except Venice and Rome. The Austrian 
Ventrue were eager to keep Venice under Austrian rule, but 
Paolo and Diego allied themselves with a Prussian Ventrue 
faction. The Giovanni gave the Prussians sub rosa aid, first 
against the Austrian Ventrue and then (when the Prussian 
Ventrue had solidified their roles among Camarilla leader-
ship) against the Lasombra- and Toreador-infested France 
of Napoleon III. 
Paolo’s reward for his extraordinary service was the 
Embrace. In the years between 1866 and 1914, he brokered 
many fruitful deals between his own clan and other Kindred 
(particularly Gangrel and Nosferatu who found themselves 
in need of money). He also showed that his aptitude for 
Necromancy was as great as his aptitude for politics. In fact, 
he mixed the two by spearheading one of the first organized 
attempts at sharing scholarship with the Tremere.
Paolo Sardenzo really came into his own during World 
War I, however. Awed and delighted by the efficiency of 
modern warfare, Paolo believed that the means to achieving 
the Endless Night was at hand. He was an aggressive and 
charismatic harvester of shades, and his courage and success 
gained him many followers, until a shell landed a little too 
close to his daytime hiding place and exposed him to the 
sun. He survived by burrowing deeper into the ground, but 
the sunlight scorched his left arm and the left side of his 
face — scars he bears to this night.
Nonetheless, Paolo continued to agitate for a gamble on 
the Endless Night ceremony, telling himself that the follow-
ers who had left him were shallow weaklings. That was when 
Valentina della Passaglia returned from beyond the Shroud 
to spout dire warnings that the Endless Night would be the 
ultimate loss for the Giovanni, not their ultimate triumph. In 
the long run, her theory was rejected, but it did a great deal to 
blunt enthusiasm for Paolo’s effort toward doing it right now.
Worse, however, was the Bloody Legion. That was the 
name of a group of war-dead wraiths led by Gaston Belladotti. 
Belladotti was the one who did the math and declared that 
although one Giovanni necromancer might be a match for 
five ghosts, there was no way he’d be a match for 50. Eventu-
ally, the Fourth Great Maelstrom and the wraiths’ own Great 
War put an end to the Bloody Legion, but not before they 
and their leader had dealt Sardenzo and his faction a series 
of defeats — humiliating defeats to a Giovanni, for whom 
ghosts are but tools and minions.
Sardenzo fell out of favor with the family after the First 
World War, and he found that his “allies” in the Camarilla 
were far less receptive to a hideous family outcast than they 
were to a charmer with money and secrets. He skulked around 
Europe for years, searching for the ghost of Gaston Belladotti 
and confounding the efforts of a group of ghost-hunters, but he 
didn’t really come to his clan’s notice again until World War II.
When the mechanized terror of the Second World War 
gripped the continent, Sardenzo was back in his element. He 
began stridently insisting that here was another opportunity 
to bring in the Endless Night, but the Giovanni weren’t 
nearly as interested this time. Fed up, Sardenzo and his few 
loyal followers made a fateful choice to disobey their elders 
and head off toward eastern Germany on their own, hoping 
to personally harvest the souls lost during the upcoming 
Russian campaign.
Things ended poorly. Sardenzo was caught, staked and 
dragged back to Venice. His companions were all slaughtered. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
98
When the war ended and another uproar in the Underworld 
began, the Giovanni removed the stake in his heart, only to 
subject him completely to his mentor Diego’s blood bond. 
The family knew that, whatever his flaws, Paolo was an expert 
on the dead realms and could be very useful. But once his 
usefulness was finished, the stake went back in and he was 
left to gather dust.
Sardenzo’s captors removed his stake in 1985. Three 
decades had softened Diego’s anger, and he was willing to 
give his brightest student another chance — as long as Paolo 
kept his nose clean and scrupulously pursued the family’s 
interests. Privately, he also figured that the sweeping changes 
in technology and society would keep Paolo dependent and 
needy, at least for a little while.
By 2000, Paolo had more than caught up with the mod-
ern age. He became fascinated with computers soon after his 
awakening, and it was his advice that convinced Diego to 
make some modest, conservative investments in technology. 
Sardenzo is still tightly bound by his mentor’s blood, but 
Diego finds it harder and harder to resist relying on someone 
so obviously intelligent and resourceful — especially since 
the start of the new death-storm.…
Image: Paolo started out as a very handsome man in the 
continental mold — tall, dark, charming. But the left half of 
his face is hideously scarred, to the extent that it makes him 
look like a casualty of the wars he plied for profit. Further, 
he has removed his left eye and replaced it with a corpse’s 
eye, which has festered in its new housing. Those who have 
seen his left hand note that it’s similarly afflicted. He affects 
well-made, if somewhat old-fashioned, business suits.
Roleplaying Hints: Although you were once discreet 
and graceful, years of spite and failure have worn those 
qualities down to a brusque frankness. Indeed, you are often 
described as honest, if a bit forthright, and while that may 
be more than a bit incorrect, it does make people willing to 
overlook your… flaws. You do not oppress company with your 
physical grotesqueries, but rather ignore them — only the 
rudest of conversationalists would draw attention to a man’s 
misfortune. And no one need know that such grotesquerie 
was elective….
Sire: Giovanni del Georgio (deceased, presumed diablerized)
Nature: Visionary
Demeanor: Survivor
Generation: 8th
Embrace: 1867
Apparent Age: late 20s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 0
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 5, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 4, Intimi-
dation 3, Leadership 4, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 1, Etiquette 3, Firearms 3, Melee 
2, Stealth 2, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics 3, Computer 2, Finance 3, Inves-
tigation 2, Linguistics 4 (English, French, German, Greek, 
Hebrew, Latin, Spanish, Sumerian), Occult 4, Politics 3
Disciplines: Dominate 1, Necromancy 5 (Sepulchre Path 
5, Ash Path 3 ), Thaumaturgy 4 (Path of Blood 4, Spirit 
Manipulation 1), Obfuscate 1, Potence 1, Protean 3
Rituals: Minestra di Morte, Occhio d’Uomo Morto, Tempesta 
Scudo, Esilio
Backgrounds: Resources 2, Allies 2, Contacts 3, Generation 
5, Status 1, Spirit Slaves 5
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 3, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 6
Notes: Paolo Sardenzo is completely blood bound to 
Diego Giovanni. He has also taken draughts of blood from 
Diego’s closest confidante, his grandchilde (and onetime 
mortal great-granddaughter) Gianmaria Giovanni.
Paolo has performed the Occhio d’Uomo Morto ritual 
on himself, and he has succeeded in binding the vengeful 
“donor” somewhere at the bottom of the Mediterranean 
Sea. He has also created a combination Discipline from the 
fourth level of Thaumaturgy’s Path of Blood and the third 
level of Protean. If Paolo is sunk in soil that is literally soaked 
with blood, he can absorb that blood into himself — even if 
he’s in torpor. Of course, blood-soaked ground isn’t terribly 
common… except in wartime or at the sites of atrocities.…
Isabel Giovanni
Background: It would seem that Isabel’s tale mirrors the 
Giovanni family history with unpleasant accuracy. From an 
early age, Isabel found herself immersed in the loathsome 
subculture of the clan. Even as a mortal, Isabel learned the 
hideous secrets of her family — and even took to them in 
some cases. As her morality rotted, her power rose, and by 
the time she had borne her brother’s child, she had earned 
the attention of the Kindred elders of the Giovanni.
In her early 20s, Isabel became a ghoul and tasted the 
power that the vitae of the Damned provided. Such times were 
not particularly enlightened, however, especially in rural Italy 
and with regard to women. As such, it took over two decades 
for Isabel to convince her domitor that she was ready for the 
Embrace. Indeed, among the Giovanni such things aren’t often 
petitioned by would-be childer, but rather decided by approv-
ing elders. Noting Isabel’s skill with the Black Art as well as 
her knack at diplomacy, the anziani elders allowed one of the 
Giovanni Kindred to bring Isabel into damnation.
Since her Embrace, Isabel has been a mouthpiece for the 
clan, and again reflects the air of mystery and suspicion with 
which outsiders view the Necromancers. Rumors and exagger-
ated depravities travel in her wake — it is said that she can feed 
only from the severed heads of her vessels, that she has sexual 
relations with those from whom she feeds, that she keeps a host 
of captured ghosts bound to her own dead heart and that her 
bite carries the Black Plague or a more modern medical scourge.


Chapter Three: Shareholders and Charnel Houses
99
Amid these tales, Isabel simply smiles and goes about 
her business. In many cases, such a reputation serves her 
well, as diplomacy comes more easily to those already feared. 
Isabel now answers directly to a group of elders, working 
as a liaison between Giovanni and the outside world. It is 
a thankless role, to be sure, and one fraught with peril, but 
Isabel’s strong will and sense of duty to the family keep 
the Giovanni interests close to her heart. She maintains 
a comfortable unlife, even in these modern nights, and 
considers her various tasks and treaties to be a part of what 
helps her make that possible.
Image: Isabel possesses a continental beauty that is as 
much a result of her carriage and demeanor as it is the power 
of physical beauty. She exudes grace; she walks with the je 
na sais qoui of a movie star or head of state. Her hair changes 
between chocolate brown and a lustrous, dusky black with 
the seasons, and her eyes are large and brown. Isabel prefers 
loose clothing that leaves more to the imagination than 
tight-fitting garments. When she is present, the environment 
seems to push her to the fore, as if she stands at center stage.
Roleplaying Hints: You are calm and collected in your 
dealings, except when it’s obvious that you’re not in control. 
In those cases, you become a bit edgier and conniving — 
and it shows. By and large, you find Kindred untrustworthy, 
products of selfish desires and hubris. You recognize these 
traits in yourself, too, and your greatest fear is being unable 
to rationalize what you’ve become with the world that con-
tinues to evolve around you. You also find relating to fellow 
Kindred sometimes jarring — in the Old World, you are still 
an ancilla, while most New World Kindred regard you as a 
veritable elder.
Clan: Giovanni
Sire: Fortunato
Nature: Architect
Demeanor: Gallant
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1714
Apparent Age: mid-30s
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 4, Appearance 4
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 1, Brawl 1, Dodge 1, Empathy 4, Grace 
4, Intimidation 3, Leadership 2, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Crafts 2, Drive 1, Etiquette 4, Firearms 2, Performance 
2, Security 1, Stealth 2, Survival 1
Knowledges: Academics 3, Computer 1, Finance 2, Investiga-
tion 4, Law 2, Linguistics (Arabic, Dutch, French, English, 
German, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish) 4, Medicine 1, Oc-
cult 4, Politics 4
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Dominate 4, Fortitude 2, Necromancy 
4, Obfuscate 1, Potence 3, Presence 2
Necromantic Paths: Sepulchre Path 4, Ash Path 3, Bone Path 2
Backgrounds: Allies 4, Clan Prestige 3, Contacts 4, Herd 
(only at the loggia) 2, Influence 1, Mentor 2, Resources 4, 
Retainers 1, Status 3
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 7
Emilio Rosselini
Emilio Rosselini was a mean, homely and distasteful — 
but moderately clever — crook. He might have amounted to 
something in life if he’d had more ambition, but Emilio was 
mainly into sexual sadism. Unfortunately for him, he was liv-
ing before the Internet opened people’s minds about bondage. 
His contemporary, the Marquis de Sade, spent most of his 
adult life imprisoned and syphilitic due to the same hobbies 
that Emilio practiced. Unlike de Sade, however, Emilio was 
protected by his family and by the Giovanni Kindred, who 
found it quite useful to have someone else abduct and dispose 
of their sustenance. What Rosselini did to people before they 
got bled dry was of little concern to his masters. 
Although the primitive constables of Emilio’s era couldn’t 
catch him (or didn’t care to, as his victims weren’t important 
people), the same was not true of Frantz Dupage. Emilio had 
snatched, brutalized and then buried Louisa Dupage, Frantz’s 
sister. Frantz stalked, captured, tortured and killed Emilio 
with a precision and ruthlessness worthy of any Kindred (or, 
indeed, of Emilio himself). That should have been the end 
of it, but Emilio’s Giovanni masters were upset at the loss of 
a useful servant, and they vented their displeasure on Frantz. 
They weren’t done with Emilio either.
Emilio had made a pact to return as a wraith, and so 
he did. At first he feared that, without a body, he would be 
unable to pursue the pleasures he’d known in life. It turned 
out that as a creature of emotion, he was far more fulfilled 
than he had been as a creature of flesh. 


Clanbook: Giovanni
100
Emilio thrives best on a particular combination of at-
traction and repulsion. He can restore himself with a bitter 
married couple who stay together because that’s all they know, 
or with a young lover who suspects his girlfriend is unfaith-
ful — but who can’t be sure. Of course, he’s not always so 
choosy. Because he was a beaten-down thug in life, he also 
thrives on the fear spawned when others are afraid of him.
In the modern nights, Emilio finds purpose as a ghostly 
taskmaster and warden. He keeps other ghosts in line and 
dispatches them to their Kindred masters when duty requires 
it. It would seem that of all his unpleasant qualities, his sadism 
has found its greatest use after his death.
Claudia Dunsirn, the Grail Seeker
Archeology’s underbelly is a dark and dangerous field, 
not to mention just plain weird. The Giovanni have had an 
interest in ancient mortuary wisdom for centuries, and Claudia 
Dunsirn is just one of their many operatives.
Kindred might seem to have many advantages in the 
dangerous field of tomb robbery. Bitten by a poisonous spi-
der? Oh, well. Fell down a 50-foot pit? Yeah, shit happens. 
Running away from outraged headhunters? Time for a burst 
of supernatural speed.
By and large, the undead have it all up on humans 
when they have the time to open a site and rifle through 
it at leisure. Not every dig is a chess match, however. 
Sometimes, it’s a race, and that’s when the ability to 
drive all night and dig during the day can be a decisive 
advantage. That’s one reason that Claudia’s domitor, Guil-
laume Giovanni, never gave her the Embrace. On top of all 
the usual reasons for having a ghoul servant, Claudia could 
also drive the truck through the rain forest all day while 
Guillaume slept in his specially prepared capsule (he never, 
ever called it a “coffin”).
Claudia and Guillaume were a good team. She adored 
him (of course — she might even have liked him without the 
blood bond) and he truly appreciated her strength, toughness 
and willingness to go the extra mile. That’s not to say he told 
her everything, of course. In fact, at their last parting, he gave 
her only the vaguest intimation about his destination (“France, 
okay?”), and he hasn’t been seen or heard from since. 
Claudia tells herself she isn’t worried. Guillaume was 
resourceful, crafty and not one prone to overconfidence. 
Instead, she’s concentrating on another quest: The search 
for the notorious “Lamp of Constantine.” If the legends are 
true, the lamp can paralyze any Kindred who comes within 
miles of it, and its unshielded light is as deadly as the sun. It 
also reputedly heals wounds, finds lost treasure and, in the 
wildest stories, has the power to remove the Curse of Caine. 
She isn’t buying that last one for a second.
At the same time that she’s been digging up ancient 
legends, Claudia has also been using the most modern technol-
ogy she can find to track the movements of her two bitterest 
rivals — the Toreador ghoul Marcella Pryce and the Tzimisce 
vampire Troy Chervenic. Both of them seem to be closing in 
on Africa, so Claudia has been brushing up on her Swahili.


™
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Clan:
Generation:
Haven:
Concept:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated
Their kiss causes pain  
instead of pleasure


™
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:_______________________________
Total Spent:________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
_________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon
Damage
Range
Rate
Clip
Conceal
Armor
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
HavensDescription
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair______________________________________________________________________________
Eyes______________________________________________________________________________
Race______________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex__________________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch


PRINTED IN USA
TM
ISBN 1-58846-207-2
WW2363  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
Blood and Betrayal
Embraced by a clan that fell during nights long past, the Giovanni have 
always had ambition. Now, they bring that ambition to bear on a world 
they want to claim for themselves. With vast wealth, the ability to 
command the spirits of the dead, and a strict familial hierarchy, the 
greatest enemy to stand against Clan Giovanni is… itself.
Clanbook: Giovanni 
Includes:
• The history of the Giovanni clan, from its origins as a Renaissance 
merchant family to its current incarnation as deathless necromancers
• The clan’s strange familial structure and its related lineages
• New Necromancy rituals and previously unknown powers
Blood and Betrayal
Embraced by a clan that fell during nights long past, the Giovanni have 
always had ambition. Now, they bring that ambition to bear on a world 
they want to claim for themselves. With vast wealth, the ability to 
command the spirits of the dead, and a strict familial hierarchy, the 
greatest enemy to stand against Clan Giovanni is… itself.
Clanbook: Giovanni 
Includes:
• The history of the Giovanni clan, from its origins as a Renaissance 
merchant family to its current incarnation as deathless necromancers
• The clan’s strange familial structure and its related lineages
• New Necromancy rituals and previously unknown powers
