TM


Contents
1
™
By Ethan Skemp
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Malkavian
2
Credits
Written by: Ethan Skemp
Associate Pokémon of the Mind’s Eye Theatre: Jess 
“LARPachu” Heinig
Developed by: Rob Hatch with Justin Achilli
Editor: Nancy Amboy
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten
Interior Art: Leif Jones, Larry MacDougall, Joshua 
Gabriel Timbrook, Drew Tucker, and Christopher Shy
Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet
Front & Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten
© 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher 
is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced 
for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, 
Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, World of Dark-
ness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf 
Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, 
Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter 
the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcer-
ers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, and Clanbook 
Malkavian are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein 
are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.
The mention of or reference to any company or product 
in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copy-
right concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters 
and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fic-
tion and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader 
discretion is advised.
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN USA.


Contents
3
Contents
A Brief Procedure	
4
Chapter One: The Tower of Babel	
12
Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam	
40
Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror	
80
™
C   L   A   N   B   O   O   K   : 


Clanbook: Malkavian
4


A Brief Procedure
5
A Brief  
Procedure
It was the consummation of a marriage. 
The vows were unspoken, of course. The courting had taken place long ago, in the lan-
guage of grants and internships rather than doses of clichéd poetry. It had been patient 
and professional, trust given out measure by measure as he let me further and further 
into the great work of his... life. First the gift of vitae, then the gift of responsi-
bility — always rationed out with perfect reason, perfect control. 
And now...
It would have been unprofessional to shudder as we stepped into the operating theatre, 
so naturally, I did no such thing. Although I felt certain that he wouldn’t have inter-
preted it as fear — why should I fear this place, almost an old friend? — it certainly 
would have been forward. The fluorescent lighting was no different, the polished steel ta-
ble the same as it had been throughout years of procedures, case studies and experiments. 
The catheter, the plastic drum — new, of course, but hardly unsettling.
No, the difference this time was anticipation. Delight, almost. But a show of such emo-
tion would surely be embarrassing to him, and that would be unforgivable. 
The repetitive echoes of his shoes’ soles against the floor bounced off the walls. As 
I slid off my lab coat, I lowered my head and closed my eyes; time for the game to begin 
again. He had taught me a trick of superhuman hearing some time ago — and I’d been so 
flustered by how hard it was to learn that I felt sure he’d turn me out before I grasped 
the secret. But when I finally heard for the first time, that was when the game began. 
Clack. Clack. He was beginning his circuit of the theatre — always attentive for the 
slightest foreign element, the least chance of chaos. Clack. Clack. At the left edge of 
the one-way mirror now, scrutinizing the seams. Clack. Clack. Halfway across the mirror 
now. Can he see through the reflection to the observation booth on the other side? He’s 
never said, but he must be able to. Clack. Clack. The far end now. Clack — and a pause. 
My smile faded. What had he found? And then there it was — the squeak of cloth, certainly 
his handkerchief, on metal. Clack. Clack. The circuit began again. 
I’d be deluding myself if I thought that the vitae-induced sensory amplification al-
lowed for as complex a sensory mechanism as echolocation. But this theatre was home, 
moreso now than the house I’d grown up in or the apartment I slept in; to be frank, I be-
lieve last year I’d slept late hours at the lab as often as I’d managed to crawl into an 
actual bed. We’d run so many case studies in here that I knew every corner, every inch of 
the equipment better than I knew my own bedroom. And I’d watched Dr. Netchurch pace the 
room just like this before every study, before every procedure. 
That was the game. To see him as he must be, to watch every footstep with my eyes shut 
tight, to see him crinkle his brow just slightly with every pause, with every possible 
imperfection. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
6
At the risk of dropping all objectivity, it was frankly exhilarating. 
Ten more steps, and he’d be within arm’s reach once more. Clack. Clack. His pace pick-
ing up just a little now, as he becomes more certain that nothing’s amiss. Clack. Clack. 
Clack. Clack. By the cabinet now — and there, the slight touch of skin on metal as he 
slides his fingers gently along the steel doors, almost unaware that he does so. Clack. 
Clack. Almost here. Clack. And — a pause? He’s testing me, I thought giddily. Don’t open 
your eyes yet. He still lacks one more step, just one. 
Clack. 
I opened my eyes and raised my head, smiling ever so slightly. His face was immobile, a 
statue with glass eyes — and then there was just a twitch of movement by one eye. I could 
have shrieked with laughter, but instead I simply tilted my head a centimeter or so to the 
side, and raised my eyebrows just so. Precise control. Precise communication. That was the 
heart of our relationship. 
“Well then,” he lightly coughed. “If you’re quite ready, Doctor, we’ll begin the proce-
dure.”
“Of course.” I forced my hands to remain at my sides, although they ferociously wanted 
to smooth down the goose pimples on my arms.
He took my coat, folding it crisply and setting it to one side. I sat down on the table 
and lay back. The cool of the metal rose up against my bare arms and seeped through my 
clothes, and it was so refreshing — the laboratory’s cool atmosphere (a perfect 65 degrees 
Fahrenheit— I might have giggled at the thought) wasn’t cooling me down at all. I must 
have seemed so feverish to him; how like him, so courteous and concerned, not to mention 
it at all. Straps of metal and leather closed on my wrists, ankles and brow; it was an in-
teresting feeling. The feeling of physical restraints coupled with anticipation — yes, it 
was an appetite, but something going beyond sexuality into so much more. 
Sex, after all, is a purely physical intimacy. Only clouded through psychological delu-
sion does it seem more than that — a lesson I’d gradually learned from my work. Watching 
him slice through the layers of tissue and blood down to a subject’s very bones — the same 
thing, really. An intimacy that means only as much as one lets it. 
But this — to think of it. An intimacy of body and psyche, and of such intellect...
“Are you comfortable, Doctor?” 
So reserved. So gentlemanly. I nodded quickly, refusing to smile like an embarrassed 
teenager.  
“Very good.” His fingers, strong and cool as the table itself, closed on my arm. I 
closed my eyes. There was the quick, tingling dab of wet cotton — force of habit, or ten-
derness? Surely the latter — then the stab of the needle. Like a good patient, I held my 
arm perfectly still as the metal slid into my flesh. Like a good patient, I began to give 
of myself. 
It wasn’t the first time I’d let someone draw blood, of course. I was glad to partici-
pate whenever the blood drives came to my college; I’d long gotten past any latent fears 
of doctors and needles by then. It seemed preposterous to develop any sort of personal 
attachment to my blood, so the issue of perceived “violation” wasn’t at all relevant, ei-
ther. Very simple. 
This time, though, I was growing colder and sleepier than ever I’d been before. There 
was a brief moment when I thought of my blood, all my blood, draining into sterilized 
plastic, leaving me stiff and lifeless, and I wanted to panic. But the lethargy, coupled 
with discipline, was master here. A simple sleep, ever-so-brief, I sluggishly reminded my-
self. He is in control; there won’t be any accidents. Relax. And above all, remember — we 
would never get another chance at a professional, objective observation of the transition 
from ghoul to...to Cainite.
And relax I did, and I set myself to remember.
Scientific observation began to fail me, though. I would have been disappointed in my-
self, but as the drowsiness grew, I couldn’t muster any focused emotion. My heart rate 
slowed, my pulse beat lethargically. My mind drifted, and I let it.
Intimacies. They came to mind so easily, while I was in this half-conscious state. And 
in this state, so easy to see them from outside, to analyze myself objectively. My cravings 
for an intimate connection to another person were wholly typical of the norm, I suppose. 


A Brief Procedure
7
It’s even forgivable to confuse intimacies such as blood relation or sexual intercourse with 
a connection between minds, particularly given the influence of hormones or learned patterns. 
So, ultimately, I could forgive myself for behaving all too naturally. But when viewed from 
the outside, with myself as the patient under study, those longings for connection and des-
perate attempts to please others— Again, I could forgive myself, and not be embarrassed, but 
I was grateful for my expanded perspective. 
And perhaps this half-fugue condition made it possible for me to see exactly when 
the vitae-induced imprinting took hold. I’d never tried that hard to analyze myself be-
fore; amusing that what I’d never looked for came on me intuitively, like a jigsaw piece 
clicking into place. Six months after Lee had proposed, and in the middle of the Stauffer 
project. One month before joining Dr. Netchurch’s team permanently. The Sunday morning 
when I snapped awake and drew away from Lee so quickly that he woke up confused. The morn-
ing of our first real, honest fight. 
Two days before I rejected my acquired need for intimacies. Two days before I realized 
exactly how I was going to spend the rest of my life.
There’s a slight, numb sensation in my arm — surely the catheter sliding free. I hear 
him sigh, the tiny sigh of someone finally giving into temptation just this once...
And then his teeth enter my arm. 
Shuddering weakly against the cold metal table, I fall into the dark. 
	
	
	
	
*	
	
	
*	
	
	
*
I am not alone.
Emptiness surrounds me, vast and hollow. I feel as though I’m a child in the center of 
a giant bed, casting about for the edges, but never reaching them. There’s nothing to hold 
onto, nothing I can catch to pull myself free of this immense darkness. It’s very like a 
nightmare — I can see nothing, touch nothing, and yet I both hear and feel voices, no more 


Clanbook: Malkavian
8
than distant vibrations. I’m not alone, 
and yet I can’t call out to whoever it is 
that’s surrounding me. I can’t hear what 
they’re saying. I’m not alone, but I’m not 
with anyone, and it’s terrifying. 
Somewhere, high above me, there is the 
smell of blood. Then I go from being tiny 
and adrift to vast and heavy — I am a sea 
of cold waters filling an immense, dark 
shell. My throat, now a great emptiness all 
its own, comes aflame.
With a ripping sound that I cannot hear, 
but rather feel throughout my infinite self, 
I come alive. 
There aren’t words. 
Why would we use words, anyway? So 
imperfect — each word good for the micro-
scopic purpose it was intended for, and 
nothing more. Trying to capture the feeling 
of this transition using words is like try-
ing to put an apple in a picture frame. 
No poetry, just sensation. An infinite 
number of colors, all black — the vibrant 
colors of pain behind closed eyes. A wall 
of unseen skin pressing against me — fire 
burning in the recesses of my brain — heat, 
darkness and noise. 
I swallow, and in that swallow he enters 
into my soul. 
The skin tears. I am through, and one — 
my mind beats around his, is cradled in his. 
His mind is cool and hard, like a jewel. I 
press my own against it, savor the cool in 
the wet heat of the darkness. He is silent 
— but there is no silence for him to break, 
had he reason to do so. A sussurus washes 
around us. It’s warm, too — is it the heat I 
feel? It brings with it a painful twinge. 
And beyond? Others? There is his sire, 
nestled deep into the fissures of my brain. 
Perhaps I’m hallucinating it, of course. 
However, I’m not in any state to make a 
proper diagnosis. I know I shouldn’t trust 
my senses — and yet I am my senses. Al-
though I feel certain I can’t literally see 
anyone, I feel the soft pressure of other 
people, other thoughts all around, like 
breath on my neck. 
Something else, back there, too — a 
shadow shaped like a flame. It hurts to fo-
cus on that. I have to withdraw. 
It’s so warm. The heat is overwhelming, 
but not stifling — I feel spasms of energy, 
not the slow crush of suffocation. The heat 
pulses behind my eyes. Just as I’d known it 
would be, my body is cool, cool against the 
metal, but the heat—


A Brief Procedure
9
A body. I have a body. Shocks of pain impale it. I am immense again, a cold mass sta-
pled to a metal slab. My eyes open, and I need to scream at the intensity of the light. My 
mouth opens silently, and the pain worsens. I feel nothing in my limbs — only the pain and 
heat in my head, and the painful emptiness in my torso. I’m a frostbite victim placed next 
to a fire — the agony of need, of life, is too great. I try to scream again, but no noise 
comes.
The strap around my head loosens, and I blindly twist as much as I can. The cries with-
in are deafening. I feel bats’ wings brush against my eyes, and I slam my eyes shut, even 
though I know it’s only stray locks of hair. The straps creak as I thrash against them, 
and the sound is like icebergs slamming together. The metal against my flesh is arctic-
cold, but no sensation at all next to the hunger.  
He puts my own blood to my lips, and I guzzle as greedily as any newborn. The cacoph-
ony fades slightly with each swallow, and I feel the still-warm fluid seep into my thirsty 
tissues. Each cell trills as the blood spreads further throughout me, carrying a pain-
ful warmth with it. Finally I’m left sucking greedily at an empty tube, trying to drain 
the last beautiful rivulets. Then the tube is removed, and a cloth dabs at my lips. I open 
my eyes and the world explodes into view, cold and brilliant in a spectrum of whites and 
metals. The clarity is frightening. He stands over me, and I see the richness of polished 
marble and lightless ocean waters layered across him, perfect as a photograph. I want to 
do something, but I don’t know what. Shouldn’t I be gasping for breath? No, no, foolish... 
His voice, echoing with the same unearthly clarity. “How are you feeling?” 
My body is still cold, but it’s a small thing. My mind blazes with heat. My tongue is 
thick, and my first attempt to form words fails — of course, no air in my lungs. Inhale. 
Then...
“I... I feel... cold.” The noises have died, but the heat remains, insistent and rhythmic.
He nods, in that tiny, economical way of his. “Mmm. Mmm-hmm. I’ll admit some small wor-
ries as to whether or not you’d come through in a lucid state — so few do — but I knew 
that you likely had more than enough strength. If you don’t mind, Doctor, I’d like to keep 
you restrained for just a little bit more; a formal precaution, you know.”
“I understand.” A tiny smile slides across my lips — I try to stop it, but it’s no 
good. I feel like I’m drunk — but that’s fine. Best to be drunk when you’re with someone 
you trust, someone who’ll never take advantage of you. “I’ll be glad to wait as long as 
you need.”
“Excellent.” He stands up. His cool fingers slide across my brow, ordering the errant 
strands of hair into a regiment. I wonder what those fingers would taste like. “If you have 
any requests, an orderly will be in the next room; just raise your voice. I’ll return 
soon.”
And then it’s the most wonderful thing. I hear Dr. Netchurch leave the room, the clack 
of his shoes on the tile, the door closing and locking afterward — and yet he hasn’t left 
at all. The room is so still that I can make out the faintest whispers of his voice, 
blowing like fallen leaves down in the back of my skull. I close my eyes against the fluo-
rescent lights and sink into the warm blackness; and his voice grows just a little louder. 
Maybe there are other voices in it. I don’t know yet. But I have time to listen in the 
darkness, until he comes back and undoes the straps and helps me up and we walk out of the 
laboratory into this incredible new existence, this marriage of minds enfolded in the lov-
ing cruel heat of our Blood.
Words can’t express.
But then again, who needs words?


Clanbook: Malkavian
10
™


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
11
Chapter One: The 
Tower of Babel
He limped, then lurched, then staggered as if he were 
drunk. One foot fell in front of the other, dragging Daniel 
forward along the long, lightless stretch of asphalt. Once he 
slid to the side, his feet flying out from under him, and his 
shoulder smashed into the guardrail — but he clutched at 
the cold metal for support, yanked himself upright again, 
and began walking once again. 
Occasionally a pair of headlights would sway carefully 
around a bend in the road, pass across Daniel, then speed 
rabbitlike past him with a shriek of rubber. 
The voice continued to batter at him, at the inside of 
his skull. 
Listen. 
Another [arrow] was called Madness, and
as it struck the earth 
I saw each gripped in fever
And those things in their blood
which were darkest 
Gained in power a thousandfold
— From the Ericyes Fragments of the Book of Nod
Daniel dug his fingers into his temples, as if trying to 
prevent the sound from reaching. But no blood was flowing 
under the skin, and there was nothing to cut off. His teeth 
ground together with the sound of cracking porcelain.
Listen.
He pressed the heels of his palms into his eyesockets, 
grinding them there like pestles, but nothing came of it. He 
wept blood, and it came away on his hands. Still the pulse 
of the voice rang in his skull. 
Listen.
All that I have wrought, I have wrought for you. 
You must carry this.


Clanbook: Malkavian
12
It has taken nights — nights upon nights — for me 
to sift through the visions, the scrawls, the shrieking. 
Years. Decades. More. Thousands of nights to fashion 
our story into a rigid form. You have one night to listen. 
You must listen. 
Sobbing tears of blood, Daniel slid down the bank and 
wrapped his arms around his shins. Quietly and slowly, he 
rocked back and forth as the pulsing voice rolled round and 
round in his head. 
Now.
There are 13 families of us, each with its own progenitor. 
Of the lot of them, only three define themselves 
by the blood of their ancestor, even by feeding off the 
very name of that vile god. Only three choose to an-
swer not to the direct name of their forefather, nor to 
use a secret word coined by an elder to mask their own 
names. Only three call themselves true children of their 
divine progenitor. There are Hassan’s childer, who share 
the disease of their grandfather’s blood. There are Set’s 
childer, who share the disease of their grandfather’s faith.
And there are us. 
We are a sprawling, fractured, decayed family. We 
are more ancient than any lineage of kings, yet more 
inbred than any withered aristocracy. We are fragmented, 
scattered, slivers of a broken mirror that cast bitter reflec-
tions. We are children of a mad god. We are Malkavian. 
Daniel’s eyes snapped open. The shivering stopped. A faint 
heat, no more than a mirage, circled around the base of his skull. 
You know what we are. You know the words, the keys 
to power — even though you haven’t been taught, you 
recognize them. But you do not know why we are what we 
are, why we have been blasted with the curse of knowing. 
You must learn more. A terrible time is forthcom-
ing, when he — the creature and god in your blood, 
hiding in your mind — when he will again draw himself 
together. And you must be ready. 
Daniel began to tremble again. Although the unlit road 
and its surroundings were little more than shifting shades of 
darkness, a greater blackness seemed to draw over his vision. 
No. Not yet. You cannot know why I chose you yet. 
You must be ready first.
His fingers dug grooves into the ground. 
The Birth of 
Madness
Our story, of course, begins with Malkav. 
Yes. That sticks inside your ribcage, catches at your 
throat, makes your stilled innards quiver. Malkav. The 
name of a god made flesh. The name makes you cringe. You 
and I and all of our brothers and sisters, even those who 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
13
haven’t been told what the name means — we all share a 
shudder when his name is invoked and it is all his doing. 
Listen. We rarely invoke the power of Malkav’s name; 
perhaps you know why already. It isn’t for us to discuss him 
over cocktails as others might speak of Plato or Hitler. What 
is there for such as us to say? You might as well describe a 
hunger pang or a burst of half-remembered lust, because 
that’s what he is. Part of him lives in you, deep back in 
that dark partition dividing your brain — that warm, wet 
throbbing that can’t be addressed or reasoned with, only 
tolerated. The pulse that echoes with every word I speak, 
with every burst of imagery that flashes across the veins 
of our shared understanding. I speak to you through him.
I suppose, though… I suppose he wasn’t always that 
way. No, not at all. The dismembered god was once 
whole, after all. 
Malkav 
The story of Malkav Our Father Our Blood begins 
with Caine. All our stories begin with Caine, damn it all. 
They have to. Caine was the first creature created with 
the shackles of human senses who then threw them off 
and gazed into the next layer of creation. Do you believe 
in Adam and Eve? Slaves, both of them. Do you believe 
in Lilith? More fool you. Do you believe in evolution? A 
clever story, but it cannot explain us, can it?
No, no matter what you believe, it must be that Caine 
was the first to place one foot in the grave and stand across 
the threshold of death and look on two worlds at once. 
Someone had to be first across. Was it indeed the first 
man to break the virgin earth and seed it and wait for his 
food to ripen? Was his name Caine, the murderer of his 
brother? Was his name Utanapishtim, the man cursed 
with immortality? Or something else?
None of us can remember; none of this saw this 
time. And it is… probably best that we don’t. If his 
name were spoken, the power of it would cling in your 
mind and gnaw at…
No. Forget that. Caine. Call him Caine. He was the First. 
The First was a beast of ashes, wet with blood, mad 
with thirst and grief. He was soulless, and he was alone. 
He was diseased, and he longed to share his disease with 
others, for he did not want to suffer alone. So he built a 
city, in lands that had yet to see the great waters of the 
Flood wash over them, and there he finally rested, and 
took three childer to his bosom. In time, they too grew 
lonely, and they took childer of their own. 
Malkav… Malkav was more than a man in life, 
or so the texts say. The records are…conflicted, but 
there is a tiny thread of agreement that runs through 
them. Some fragments mention an angel, a messenger, 
a chosen one — and that is perhaps what he was. He 
was chosen to bear a vision given to him by his sire, or 
perhaps he was chosen for his vision. 
The records become even more convoluted when 
discussing Malkav’s sire. I have seen it written that his 
sire was Ynosh the Law-giver, who loved Malkav for 
his wisdom and seated him at the right of the throne as 
his vizier. I have read tablets proclaiming that Irad the 
Strong chose Malkav for his own, selecting a childe of 
strong soul and heart to match his own strength. I have 
heard that Zillah the Beautiful saw a light burning in 
Malkav’s eyes that matched Caine’s own desire, and so 
she drew him near to her in Caine’s absence. The songs 
of Malkav speak of love, and of thirst for wisdom, but 
they do not agree — they do not agree. 
I think that, at the last, Malkav’s sire must have 
hated him. Perhaps he knew that Malkav could see 
what was going to happen. A fragment of verse from 
Nineveh laid a trail that I traced back 300 years, and 
the collected shards hinted that one of the Three had 
taken one of the Thirteen, and was beating or torturing 
the childe for something that the childe had said…or 
refused to say. And that, according to this fragment, was 
when the Thirteen rose up against their sires.
The rest is…uncovered easily enough. The Three 
were cast down and destroyed; records are unclear 
whether they were obliterated outright, or if some of 
their childer managed to drink their essences. And the 
Thirteen drew up a truce, and they dwelt one next to 
the other. For a time. 
The Curse
Voices, more of them, rushed into Daniel’s bones.
“…he/Caine cursed him/Malkav, when that one de-
famed his image
and doomed him to insanity, forever…”
“…Caine learned much under Lilith, but she did not 
teach him all she knew. When he abandoned her, in spite 
she went to the firstborn of his grandchilder, and told him a 
secret that broke him, that destroyed his mind and tainted 
his blood…”
“…Behold my most foolish childe, 
who claims madness for his pleasure.
Let him become mad in truth, so
that all may fear his company…”
“…Then [Malkav], hidden from the sight of his siblings, 
drank deep of the hoarded blood of the Three. But it was too 
much for [Malkav’s] veins, and his heart was like to burst. 
His eyes were opened, and the Truth rushed inward…”
“…[Malkav] seized his parent in his hands, 
hands that could break stone,
and he bit like a dog into the neck of his parent. 
And [the elder] screamed like a thousand jackals,


Clanbook: Malkavian
14
Like the vulture that dies with an arrow in its breast.
Like the lion that slays its child,
And [Malkav] drew in the scream with his breath, 
And he began to weep.
He wept for many nights, 
And he wailed, and tore his hair like a woman…”
When was the curse placed? Who struck Malkav with 
the gift of visions that burned? I would — I have given so 
much, and yet the answer, the true answer, continues to flut-
ter out of reach. The memories of us all are tainted, washed 
with fever here. Whatever event slashed into Malkav’s mind, 
leaving this great, terrible, livid wound, it so scarred him that 
he could never tell the same story to any two of his childer. 
The only times the stories agree are when a childe’s story 
agrees with his sire’s, or when a scholar quotes the Book of 
Nod — but even the Book of Nod might not be true. Surely 
if any other of Caine’s grandchilder had been with Malkav 
when the Sight struck him, they would have been stricken 
as well. The power of the thing…
The power of the Sight is the power of the world 
itself. It is more than a disease that runs in the blood 
— it is a connection to the chaos that pools in invis-
ible places. It is the vision to perceive the world’s true 
angles, to pierce illusions. 
Many of the myths agree that Malkav had sired childer 
of his own before the Sight came upon him, and that as 
his blood burned with the fever, so too did theirs. I believe 
this. There are other stories — stories of Nosferatu and 
all his children becoming blasted of visage at once; of the 
nameless Methuselah offering the souls, or the remnants 
of souls, of himself and all his childer to the demons of the 
Pit; of the gnawing obsession that descended on Arikel 
and all her line at once. The powers that were loose in 
the old world could easily infect an entire bloodline; the 
Reawakening is just a side effect of—
I outpace myself.
The Sight, then, surely came on all of Malkav’s 
childer just as it came on him, and each newborn that 
they Embraced since then also woke with it pulsing behind 
their eyes. Malkav’s blood, wherever it might be, had been 
infected with a…closeness to the streams of madness that 
run through the world. The Sight affected his visions, 
in some cases making his prophecies more accurate than 
ever before — but it was a heavy burden as well. 
Madness in the Old Times
Count yourself lucky, childe, that humans have 
turned to small mercies in this time. They are proud 
of their learning, and like to make much of their com-
passion. In the Western lands, the madman is, if not 
tolerated, at least not sought out with chains and staves. 
A lunatic on the street, shouting the gospel of mother 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
15
Moon, is ignored by his brothers and sisters. When they 
try to cure him, they do so with medicines and games. 
Not so in our grandsire’s time. The mad were not 
“diseased” then; they were “possessed.” It was best, they 
said, to drive the demons from the body by flogging, 
or to starve the fleshly host so that the demons would 
grow weak and flee in search of a more fitting vessel. 
Such was our lot. Many of Malkav’s grandchilder 
were quickly slain if they wandered too far from his pro-
tection. The other king-childer of the Third Generation 
would have slain Malkav himself — but they did not. 
Perhaps Caine forbade it. Perhaps it was because the 
Curse and the vision that assailed Malkav also brought 
him closer to a few of them, and so Malkav was never 
completely alone. Truly alone, yes; but not completely. 
Brother Saulot and Brother Set
A parable: 
Two among the Antediluvians were Malkav’s broth-
ers. One was Saulot, who in life had loved his body and 
the bodies of others, and strove to perfect his immortal 
flesh. One was Set, who in life had lusted for eternity and 
striven to bestow eternity on his beloved ones, and strove 
to master his soul of night. As brothers they would come 
to Malkav, and would strive to console him, though there 
was no balm for his wound, no elixir to soothe his fever. 
So, failing in their ministrations, they would instead talk 
of things, of long nights and the frailness of kine, of life 
and death and the secrets that lay between. 
And so it came to pass that Malkav would say 
things that angered Set, who would reply with harsh 
words, seeking to anger Malkav in turn. For Malkav 
would claim that all things would be revealed, in brief 
and contradicting glimpses, but revealed as true all the 
same by the mind and its perceptions, as a flickering 
torchlight illuminating a rough cavern wall. Yet Set 
would argue otherwise, complaining that only in the 
depths of one’s soul would the truth be known, and that 
humans in their imperfections could perceive some of 
the greatness of the universe, but only through undeath 
could they perceive the things that remain unseen. 
Finally, the two glared long at one another, and 
turned to their brother Saulot, and demanded that 
he judge between their arguments. Is the answer not, 
demanded Set, that man is wisest in the hollowness of 
despair, and ultimately finds his answers within his own 
soul? And is the answer not, countered Malkav, that 
wisdom comes from without, from the eyes that see too 
much, and ultimately from the mind? 
And Saulot scratched at his brow, and he hung his 
head, and he admitted that he did not know. And he 
was shamed by that answer, for if the answer was not 
of his making nor in his possession, then surely would 
he hunger for it. 
So then Saulot rose to his feet, and said, “Though I 
have no answer for you, I shall find one.” So saying, he 
gave his sword to Set, bidding that he keep it for him; 
and Set in return offered Saulot a staff of thornwood, 
and wished him safe journey. To Malkav Saulot gave his 
crown, but Malkav had nothing to offer in return — so he 
bit into his finger, and drew an eye upon Saulot’s brow in 
his own blood, and wished him safe journey. And Saulot, 
knowing that no safe journey could ever yield the answer, 
strode forth to the lightening horizon, and was never 
seen by Malkav again before Malkav was rent asunder. 
The Methuselahs 
From Malkav comes nightmare. He had been given 
the power to create, but like all other Kindred, he could 
build things only in his own image. 
And with his own image broken from what it had 
been, and his eyes opened to things that his childer 
could no longer see, he knew that his creations were 
his no longer. They were no longer in his image. 
Not one could resist him. Not one. 
The blood we know, the gods and heroes and monsters 
of our kind — all pour from Malkav after his fracturing. 
Ask the ghosts of the land, listen to the seething pools 
of Malkav’s mind, even question the eldest of any clan, 
and always you find the same answer. Those who came 
before were destroyed. Those who came after — are us. 
He chose a number for his new children. We don’t 
know which it was. It was eight, or 12, or 20, or 36. It 
was one of those. And his own childer did not exceed 
that number, for they were chosen one at a time and 
all together. 
I fear — and you fear, as well, for you must — I fear 
when the time comes that one of his childer is destroyed 
utterly. For numbers are sacred, and he may awake then 
to rectify the count.
The Plague-Bride
Who do we know that are his? Only a few. One is 
named — without a name, but named — in fragments 
of lore and memory, a faraway voice that thrums from 
Mesopotamia. 
She was smooth and fair and kind. She was a temple 
harlot who soothed Malkav just as Shamhat tamed the 
beast of the wilds. She cooled his forehead with water 
and oils; she brought him nourishment when he thirsted. 
An old song that names Zillah as Malkav’s sire 
claims that Malkav loved Zillah, and that he eventually 
joined with the others to destroy her. If this is true, then 
perhaps he saw something of his beloved yet ultimately 


Clanbook: Malkavian
16
unattainable sire in this sweet woman. And he took her 
for his own…and eventually, for such was his curse, he 
discarded her. Her mind was broken into razored shards 
by his touch, and he pushed her from him in regret — if 
indeed Malkav could ever feel regret. 
But her story does not end there. There are many 
tales of our forefather rending apart his own childer 
in fits of rage. He did not destroy her in like fashion, 
though. I have touched drifting memories of her face, 
of her gentleness, and of her hunger. Her voice flits 
around tales of the Plague-Bride, the Methuselah who 
wears his fever like a crown. 
It was Malkav’s sweet harlot who began the creed 
of infection, you see. She loved our Father terribly, and 
came to love the portion of him that resides in her, and 
in all of us. And her sense of charity never dimmed. 
She is the Plague-Bride. She appears in our stories 
and memories as a willing Typhoid Mary, bringing 
the gift of Malkav’s disease to those she takes pity 
on, though her gift is sure to destroy them. She visits 
newborn childer at times, and dabs at their brows and 
eases them through the fit of the Becoming. I hear leg-
ends of Crazy Jane, and I wonder if the long-vanished 
Jane Pennington is the one responsible, or if Malkav’s 
rejected bride is the one stalking our visions. As with 
all of Malkav’s childer, we have never heard of — we 
have never felt — his bride’s death. 
Nissiku, the Clever Prince
Another was a creature of Uruk-of-the-City-
Squares, a man who knew Enkidu the wild man and 
who kept court with Ninurta the warlike and Erra the 
pestilent. He was a being of great cleverness and hu-
mor, prominent among the Igigi, who ruled in the land 
between the rivers by night. Nissiku was his name, and 
his name meant “the clever prince.” 
The name was well-chosen — or perhaps the name 
chose him. Nissiku was born a trickster, or so it’s said. 
He was a charlatan who feigned oracular ability, or 
perhaps he was a nobleman who enjoyed playing at fits 
of delirium, or perhaps he was only a madman with the 
gift of charm. The songs are so vague, but they agree 
on too many things.… 
He came into the family; he was one of the first. 
When he drank from Malkav and was reborn…perhaps 
he drank too deeply. His Sight reached beyond reality, 
and his too-clever fingers were able to follow. I hear 
tales of the Clever Prince reaching through the skin 
of the world and drawing forth the cold, sharp-edged 
things that lie beyond the soft, loving mirage. Malkav 
abandoned him soon after his rebirth, it’s said; I wonder 
if the father didn’t see too much of himself in his childe. 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
17
A thousand names and faces bob like flotsam in 
Nissiku’s wake. I hear the Gangrel mutter “Iktomi,” 
and I think of Nissiku. I hear the Nosferatu grumble 
the name “Malk Content,” and I think of Nissiku. 
Iktomi, Malk Content, Devil Hanse, the Babylonian, 
Fool-Eater, Old Man Hate — they all catch at the 
same memory. I am certain that the Clever Prince has 
survived to modern times; though I have no proof, I 
can feel the moth-winged brush of his laughter on the 
back of my vanished neck. Somewhere out there, he is 
quietly walking to his next destination, his eyes fixed on 
the back of his next target’s neck, ready to seize the Lie 
with both hands and pull it apart, releasing whatever is 
straining at the boundaries. He has work to do. 
The Eater
Names. Always, it returns to names. Malkav — the 
name of madness. Caine — a word for a monster whose 
name is the name of the greatest curse ever spoken, a 
name so terrible it would blister your flesh worse than 
the sun and devour your body with hunger should it 
ever catch you. 
Consider yourself lucky, childe. We are blessed 
among the bloodlines, for to us names have less power. 
A thing that has one name to the whole world may 
have another name to you, or to your cousin. We are 
more free from names, from being one thing at all times, 
from being logical and sturdy and imperishable. To be 
dependent on names such as the others are, that is a 
weakness. 
One of the childer seized upon that weakness, you 
see. The power he stole, that he ascended to, that he 
devoured, was the secret of eating names — of swallowing 
them entirely and feeding on the power they grant. He 
could eat the name of a person, and that person would 
falter and die, and everything that lived in that person 
he would digest and incorporate into himself. 
I know that this story is true, for I have heard him. 
Sometimes, in the silence of the mind that comes on 
you when you search for a precise word that you can-
not quite remember, you could hear him. I did. Others 
did. We heard him, far away, chewing on things that 
become forgotten; heard the scrape of teeth like knives 
against the paper-skin of names. 
I haven’t heard him in years. Perhaps he caught me 
listening, and withdrew to continue his feeding more 
quietly. Perhaps he sleeps now, digesting the power of 
a name that we should all know but now cannot recall. 
Perhaps he tried to devour a name too great or wicked for 
him, and choked on it. There’s no telling, of course. No 
finding him until he chooses to find you. For of course, 
when he learned this great secret of eating names, of 
biting chunks of reality itself free from the world and 
gulping them down — the first name he must surely 
have eaten was his own. 
The Severing of Malkav
Again the dry voices began, fluttering with brittle paper 
wings. 
“…Though this city was as great as Caine’s, eventually
It grew old.
As do all living things, it slowly began to die…”
The Chronicle of Caine speaks truly here. Cities are 
living things, and they grow sick over time. The Second 
City had taken ill, and the poison in our blood, in all 
13 bloodlines, bore fruit. The rulers of the city grew 
restless, and their kine were slowly maddening under 
the burden of service. Long cracks grew in the heart of 
the city…and finally the heart broke. It broke because 
once more, a childe had risen up to devour her sire.  
And then there was war. 
Such a smell, of blood spilled out, wasted, glutting 
the earth — of fires burning with fat and skin and hair 
and dried bones — such a smell, and yet…
The memories are…fleeting, frustratingly vague 
here. No complete, whole images of the war haunt the 
weavery. The records do not agree if the Ancients made 
war on one another, or if the kine rose up against them, 
or if at last a third party such as the Moon-Beasts cracked 
open the walls. The Thirteen fled, each in a separate 
direction. Never again were they to sit and drink with 
one another; now they were rivals and enemies. 
It was in this flight, near the city of Petra, that 
Malkav was lost. 
Daniel’s world winked out. There was a great, vast, 
hollowness—
and then the world returned, and the voice with it. 
We cannot say whose hand it was that stretched 
forth and caught Malkav as he fled. Was it one of his 
brethren — Set, perhaps, or a jealous Toreador, or perhaps 
Assam experimenting with murder for the first time? 
Was it the angry Children of Seth? Or the monsters that 
have since sunk beneath the land in slumber? Impossible 
to say, for anyone who might have been with him was 
caught alongside him, and… 
He was caught, and he was torn by talons, slashed 
by bronze knives, torn by teeth. His blood poured out 
upon sand and stone, for whoever it was that caught 
him feared his blood, and that which pulsed within his 
veins, and they were afraid to drink it. But they took his 
flesh and they pulled it asunder, and then they took the 
gobbets of his body and drowned them in rivers, hurled 
them into the ocean, buried them beneath stones. 
Of course, anyone literate in the tales of Egypt will 
tell you that you cannot truly kill a god in that manner. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
18
No, Malkav did not die. His blood pooled within 
the earth, and it surged with life. I am told that his 
children came to the rock where he was hacked apart, 
and they lapped up his blood, and carried it with them. 
And somehow, he gestated inside them — somehow he 
gestated inside all of them, all of us. His mind, broken 
and scattered, took root in the minds of his childer. His 
nerves, no longer made of tiny fragments of flesh, link 
those of his blood one to the next. 
I have seen this story only in tales, in visions and 
scrawled ravings. But the tellers often, too often end 
this tale by proclaiming that Malkav’s flesh was never 
touched by the light of the sun, and thus he can never 
be truly destroyed. This much I believe — for I could 
feel him within me when I had a body, and I can feel his 
touch on my fringes now that I do not. He has not left. 
Remember. This is a tale, a legend, a myth. But 
that does not make it true, and that does not make it 
untrue. This is a story that was carried to me on the 
murmurs of ill blood, echoed by black humors. This is 
a story that pools within you. Remember.
The Growth 
of the Clan
And that was it. One brutal act, and no longer were 
they — we a tight-knit family, a handful of children and 
grandchildren clustered at the feet of our patriarch. Our 
grandsire, focus of all we knew, was gone: torn apart and 
scattered. We could no longer rely on our father-god’s 
protection, and many were soon destroyed. This was a 
pattern that would haunt us forever more — if ever it 
were possible to choose childer by whatever whim took 
us, it was no longer so. 
And at the same time, the loss of Malkav gave birth 
to the Family Malkavian. Without a demigod to hide 
behind, without the central guidance of their — our sire, 
the Methuselahs rose up as demigods in their own right. 
One giver of law became eight — 12, 20, 36? — and 
each lawgiver begot lawgivers of his own, each bound 
by the demands of the tyrant within his own skull. The 
mirror was broken; the shards vomited forth countless 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
19
reflections. They heard voices; they followed their visions; 
they Embraced childer, and they allowed their childer 
to roam where they might. It was time to go where the 
humans were — everywhere the humans were. 
The Old Cities
More than any other, we are creatures of the cities. 
I have said before that cities are living things. They are. 
They beat and pulse like living minds — the streets 
mapping the neurons, the folds in the brain, as riders 
and pedestrians hurry like impulses from one place to 
the next. And the older a city becomes, the madder it 
grows. They are our places. 
There was room for the family in Mesopotamia, along 
the Mediterranean and in North Africa. The strong grew 
fat, and the starvelings found what they could. The ones 
who came before, the ones fresh from the mouth of Malkav 
and his childer — they squatted outside the beer-halls of 
Uruk, they wrapped themselves in smoke and watched Sen-
nacherib heap skulls like small white hills, they drew forth 
shivering secrets from the minds of the priests of Memphis 
and Thebes. They sang strange tales of the Pandavas in 
India; they let their shadows fall across the banquet tables 
of Persian princes. They were few, but they followed the 
humans to wherever they chose to build cities. 
Greece — Greece is a place that beats in our memory. 
There the kine began to paw at the mud in their eyes, 
to delve for the truth hidden from them by their lying 
senses. They cast about them, staring at the universe 
with newfound eyes, questioning the walls of reality 
itself, wondering if perhaps the Normal, the Visible was 
instead the Lie. Hippocrates began stalking illnesses 
within the body, and he even went so far as to suggest 
that the root of consciousness resided within the brain. 
It was…I believe it must have been a great temptation 
to kiss the greatest thinkers of the time with the Sight, 
and to see what would have come of them. But this 
was a moon-touched land, where many of Caine’s get 
congregated, and where…other children of the moon 
also hid in her shadows to catch prey. There would, 
logically, have been no opportunity. 
We were few then, still the grandfathers and 
grandmothers-to-be of the clan, but ah! We were terrible. 
Who were they — who were we then? There was 
Cybele, she who wore the earth as a blanket and drank 
up the blood of her faithful as if it were rain. The Diony-
sian, too; he claims to have been part of the Eleusinian 
mysteries of the time, guiding the populace in their rites 
to return Persephone from the Underworld, although 
he has been repeatedly known to lie. Lamdiel, the 
sunblind yet all-seeing prophet, stalked the baked and 
lifeless wastes so near to Jerusalem. With the strength 
of the fever burning in their limbs and the wisdom of 
the Sight shining in their eyes — they were terrifying. 
But there were other, older things in the world as 
well. I have heard faint vibrations, shadows of their 
shifting coils that shake the earth. You may have heard 
them turn in their slumber; you may yet hear them do so. 
Older things in the earth. They are mentioned in 
frightened cries that echo along the Cobweb, cries that 
tell of our flight from North Africa.  
I wish that I knew more about the exodus — I fear 
the knowledge, but I crave it nonetheless. I have heard 
that in Carthage, a small family of Malkavians vanished, 
into Baal’s fires, it’s said. I have remembered that stragglers 
trickled out of Egypt, muttering in the tongue of night-
mares. Their shrieks spoke of something that came on 
us, that sank bloodied teeth into our skulls as if to devour 
our diseased minds. Was this — this ancient, this beast — 
was it something that hated us for our perceptions, that 
feared that our sight might be enough to pierce its veils? 
Was it one of the eldest among us — one of Malkav’s 
own, striving to consume all our infection into itself? 
I do not know. Nobody I ever spoke to knew. The 
scrape of long nails in the dark, a soft keening in the 
back of the throat — we have nothing else of our pur-
suer. Or pursuers.
The family fled Africa. Few would blame us.
Rome
Of course, the family could not keep themselves 
from Rome. As I said, we are creatures of cities, of the 
living stone minds. Rome was an orderly mind, a great 
mind, with a hint of decay lingering in its alleys. The 
elders among us felt delight in walking the streets, tarry-
ing as they would, watching Rome blaze with thoughts 
of whatever it is cities dream of. 
Perhaps Rome dreamt of blood. 
The smell of blood and smoke choked Daniel’s nostrils. 
He rocked back and forth, trying to gag, but his body refused 
to go through the motions. 
The name Camilla surfaces again and again when I 
dream, or watch, or pry into the time of Rome. Camilla…
the prince. His hands were iron — well-oiled to keep the 
rust away — and his law was the same. But Camilla was 
sufficiently clever to keep some of the family close to him, 
and to allow them such freedoms as they required. Like 
all good princes, he required soothsayers — would that 
Julius had learned from his example. So we prospered, 
and we were allowed to take many childer, and so we did. 
The family did…quite well for itself in Rome.
Whatever a vampire, whether battened on the blood 
of nobles or lean and hungry as a Colosseum leopard…


Clanbook: Malkavian
20
whatever a vampire wanted, the Empire provided. The 
citizenry was as strong and flavorful as one could ask 
from any city full of kine, and more were shipped in from 
the provinces every night. It was…there are impressions 
of comfort, before the flashes of ruin begin. It began to 
chafe only when the kine and Kindred alike became 
too content in their laws and ways. And…and that was 
nothing that patience wouldn’t cure. A change was due 
sooner or later. 
Carthage
As word continued to cross the Mediterranean of 
the city the Brujah and Hassam’s brood had built, a grave 
fear settled on the undying of Rome. Fear…or envy, 
perhaps. Either one would have been…was enough. 
Carthage…Its name drips from the lips of every 
patronizing Brujah elder who counsels returning to a 
covenant with the kine, and every rigid Ventrue elder 
with warnings against the infernal. Over two thousand 
years have passed, and still they remember Carthage. 
It was more than a private scuffle between rival clans, 
rival princes. It was the first of the grandchilder’s wars 
against one another. 
Fear, and envy. They clutched at the vampires who 
nested in great Rome. They pulled at withered hearts, 
and slowly the premonitions of a terrible conflict drew 
so thick that even the blindest of Cainites could make 
out their smoky outline. 
Eventually, the Prince of Rome went to a seeress 
named Tryphosa, who was one of us. Camilla believed 
greatly in her powers as a sibyl, as well he should have; 
her sight reached farther than any other’s. She received 
him in her decayed hall; she scrabbled in the dirt, search-
ing for patterns, and finally she spoke to him. 
“Woe to you, Camilla, if you remain within your walls 
and strike not at the hive that is Carthage! There the father’s 
mouth drips with the blood of his children, and the children’s 
hands are stained with the flesh of their mothers! Their gods 
of Baal-Haamon, Tanit and Melkart demand the lives of 
Seth’s children, offered up unto the flames! Overturn the 
stones, for if one remains atop the other, then they shall grind 
out measures of blood that shall drown even Rome itself!”
Her words are all we have. As deeply as I reach, I can-
not find her vision itself; perhaps it is mired in the darkest 
recesses of the weavery where only the eldest’s reflections 
endure, or perhaps it was burnt away with her death.
But her words were enough. Camilla struck as though 
he strove to destroy Gehenna itself. And the carrion 
crows of the family Malkavian flew behind him — not 
before him.
The exception, as I have heard it told, was the 
Dionysian. If the fragments have it right, the Dionysian 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
21
came to Carthage long before the war was ended. He may 
even have entered the walls before the wars ever began. 
But it was almost certainly his power that bled from one 
wall to the other, setting loose the furious passions of 
kine and vampires alike. His was the power to bring 
an entire city to riot — and he used that power. The 
defenders of Carthage became maddened and frenzied 
as he walked from wall to wall, and ultimately they fell. 
We watched the siege-fires burn; we took food and 
childer from among the people who had been made 
slaves, and we rested on the rubble like carrion crows 
when his soldiers had finished. 
And perhaps, Tryphosa was content. 
Not so Scipio. The leader of Rome’s forces was 
a…a strangely cunning man, one who gladly attacked 
under a flag of truce when it suited his purposes. His 
perception was, perhaps, unwelcome at the last. For, as 
he stood heartsick and weary by burning Carthage, he 
gazed out over the tumbled, bloodied, burnt stones and 
murmured to himself, “And someday Rome.” 
His observation somewhat flies in the face of the 
presumption that mortals are by nature blind.
Death of an Empire
The kine were populous, and close-packed, and 
arrogant. Their sickness was breeding quick and strong; 
it was far too late to lance the boil without releasing a 
plague. The empire of the wolf-son was doomed, and 
its doom was writ on the faces of Tiberius’ line. 
Those of other…bloods look at us and think they 
see patterns. Malkav’s infection quickens in our veins, 
and madness festered in the lineage of the emperors; so, 
they reason, Caligula and Nero and all their kind must 
have been intertwined with us. They see the pattern, yes, 
but miss the weave. The crazed emperors and tribunes 
and soldiers — or had you thought that only the royalty 
of Rome was fevered? — drew us, but we didn’t need 
to compel them, at least not on any grand scale. There 
were…games, yes. But it is too simple, far too simple to 
claim Nero and Caligula as ours. Far truer, I believe — I 
half-remember — that the others scrabbled desperately 
to keep hold of the dynasty, only to watch the corrupt, 
crazed old fools fall away from their hands and into the 
net already woven by the mere presence of our family. 
Caligula. The human blister. He was the first sign of 
Rome’s end; the first of their dynasty to openly challenge 
the Lie, but to do so without any vision. He was blind, 
and his blindness was contagious. Nero and the fire were 
another symptom of the slow, cancerous descent; the 
year of the four emperors was a third. There was life in 
the old government yet, but it was waning quickly. The 
nest of Cainite shadows squabbled to regain control, but 
their quiet wars were, in the end, but another tumor 
in the increasingly cancerous empire. The Call beck-
oned to the family again and again many a time during 
Commodus’ bloody time on the throne, and we quietly 
watched as the army broke down. More than two dozen 
emperors dead in a mere five decades, and all but one 
slain outright! Oh, a spark of hope lit the Patricians’ 
eyes when Diocletian and Constantine almost, almost 
seemed to have the empire in hand — but no. In the 
end, it was all useless. I can still taste the futility…like 
wet ashes resentfully clinging to the tongue. 
A few mournful cries echo in our history, lamenta-
tions of the final gathering in Rome. The fall of the great 
city, I have gathered, was cause for a conclave, but it was 
one that drew a poor fate. The Malkavians who answered 
that final Call were slaughtered while they held court, 
seared by fire. Perhaps rival Cainites who blamed them 
for Caligula, Commodus and the rest finally caught them 
to enact futile vengeance. Perhaps there were…wolves 
among the Vandals. That portion of the Cobweb is burnt 
and dark, and whatever they gathered to achieve, guard 
or hide has vanished from our knowledge. 
The Long Night
As Rome’s fires burned out, I believe…I have gath-
ered that some mourned. Some who were outside the 
family, that is. To think…
They must have been crocodile tears, I imagine. 
Yes, the sprawling feast of pleasures and resources had 
all been eaten. But a new time had come on the land. 
Those who were clever enough to run across the land and 
find other cities, new and old, the growing, living things 
dotting the face of the Earth — they became kings, and 
sometimes even gods. I’m certain the bitter mourners 
eventually cried themselves out and left their hermit-
ages to join the long time of prosperity that followed.
Prosperity. Not quite the correct word. The Church 
had power, and it stretched out its long arms to bring its 
bans to all corners of the continent. But in the shelter 
of its shadow, our race did well enough for itself. 
What can I say of the Long Night? This was my 
time; my age. It was a time that belonged to all of us. 
The proud grandchilder of Caine ruled dominions 
in whatever manner they chose, answering to their 
sires and none other — if their sires were to be found. 
There were a thousand domains across the land, and a 
thousand lords to rule them. I…A lord could make a 
simple gesture, and kine would turn on their brothers 
and sisters and children. He could whisper the slightest 
command, and the torches that lit the night would gutter 
and die at his pleasure. He could call for his horse and 
hounds, and the hunts would ride through forest and 


Clanbook: Malkavian
22
valley, the blood of our…his prey shining black in the 
swollen moon’s light. 
But…that is not a precise reckoning of us. Of our 
role. We were almost never lords and masters. The 
torchlight was too intense, too bright; it has always 
been our way to rule under the light of our Moon. Why 
rule openly when one can direct the lords with whispers 
and riddles and even jests? It was our lot to come to the 
courts either when called or when unbidden, to move 
where the other courtiers wouldn’t tread, to ask ques-
tions the other courtiers wouldn’t ask. 
And we…we saw so much. They kept us on the 
outskirts of their courts, fearing to draw too near to our 
infected blood lest they fall ill with our fever as well. 
But…as the Lepers will admit if you press them, the 
outskirts are a useful place to watch the affairs of those 
within and without alike. 
So we saw. I saw. And we remembered. 
Too many tales…too many tales to sort through. It 
was my time, and even I cannot believe everything I have 
heard of the Long Night. The accounts of kings in the 
thrall of unliving courtesans…of entire cathedrals woven 
of living and unliving flesh that shuddered with the thirst 
for blood…of iron-toothed crones clutching flayed scrolls 
inscribed with the secrets of Lilith…of demons sinking 
their talons into the minds of kine and even Cainites…
of heresy cults preaching the word of Caine the Savior…
of a cup filled with the blood of Malkav…of ancient gods 
deep beneath peat bogs, devouring the sacrifices offered 
them until they woke…of the Old Folk catching and 
torturing anyone without the iron to keep them at bay…
Enough. Too many legends, and they mix with the 
facts, both the facts as we remember them and the facts 
that the kine write down in their texts to paper the 
walls of their tiny box of perception. The blend is…
painful. Confusing.
Here. Here is a fact for you. 
I heard, much later, that in 1243, a few cousins 
followed a very faint call to London, to quietly watch 
the founding of the Priory of St. Mary of Bethlehem 
— Bedlam itself. They must have been very confused 
at first, trying to puzzle out just why they’d been drawn 
there. The survivors wouldn’t know until the turn of 
the 15th century, or even afterwards, just why the place 
was so important. It wasn’t much at first — but it grew 
and it grew. I wonder just when it was that the channels 
were dug to draw in the invisible fever.…
I have, perhaps, said too much of rulership and not 
enough of horror. You must not think that this was a time 
of nothing but plenty. We lost many of our cousins in this 
time, beasts who grew fat on blood and grossly overcon-
fident. They made too much of their visions, challenged 
the priests and nobles too openly. The humans caught and 
destroyed some of them; angered childer of other lines 
eradicated others. Some were spitted on stakes for the 
pleasure of Fiends; others strayed too far into the woods, 
despite the warnings of the hungry jaws that prowled there. 
Elmolech the Undying
The Malkavian clan doesn’t speak of many 
brushes with the infernal. Whatever personality 
drives a vampire into demonology and the black 
arts isn’t common amongst the Clan of the Moon, 
or so clan wisdom would hold. However, at least 
one legend from the Long Night hints that the 
Malkavians have had encounters with the hell-born, 
and that the mark is still on the world. 
As the story goes, a demon by the name of 
Elmolech chose to pursue a Lunatic for his soul 
— presumably on a bet with a fellow demon, who 
wagered that a madman’s soul would be a slippery 
target. In his bravado, Elmolech selected as his 
victim a cloistered nun, Genevieve of Limoge, who 
was an elder daughter of Malkav’s line. He visited 
her over six nights, tempting her with visions and 
plaguing her with torments, sure that her already 
fractured spirit would soon shatter. 
On the seventh night, however, Elmolech 
slipped through the convent’s windows — and was 
confronted by a full gathering of the clan. He tried 
to flee, but the power of their collected, mad will 
bound him to the spot. And although nobody can 
say for certain exactly how they did it — but surely 
a Methuselah must have answered Genevieve’s 
Call — the Malkavians gathered their power and 
bound him into a human’s body. That done, they 
sent him, immortal and insane, into the night. 
Those Malkavians who know Elmolech’s story 
say that he still walks the earth, like the Wander-
ing Jew’s infernal counterpart. Flashes of visions, 
ever so brief, flit across the Cobweb with tales of 
the latest sighting. Murmurs speak of the broken 
once-demon sleeping in a dumpster in Dresden, 
flinching at children’s laughter in Rio de Janeiro, 
or begging charity from passerby in Johannesburg. 
Those who actually speak with Elmolech allegedly 
learn forbidden insights and prophecies from his bab-
bling, insights that can’t be found on the Cobweb. 
However, these Malkavians also — or so it’s said 
— become unable to discuss their newfound lore 
with others. All they can do is act on his revelations 
— as if the clan needed any further exhortation to 
commit seemingly random acts.


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
23
It was…a time when vampires were free to kill as 
they saw fit. And in times such as that, there are always 
repercussions.
The Death of Brother Saulot
It is said by some that Malkav foresaw the death of 
his beloved brother, Saulot the Wanderer. I…I cannot 
see for myself. The Babel-tongued cries that come from 
the ancient age, those that speak of him — they can 
reveal only so much. If ever our father-god spoke such 
a prophecy, the words he used have burned to ash and 
scattered. And yet…and yet, I find it easy to believe 
that Malkav did see death on his quiet brother’s brow. 
Some of our…histories, our memories, speak of the 
children of Ceoris. They were a quiet, secretive lot in their 
infancy. Their eyes burned when they touched our flesh, 
but they never stared for too long — they were, after all, 
merely younglings, and we are very frightening to the young. 
Instead, the clever creatures scented out the tracks of our 
mendicant great-uncle, tracked him to his bed — a bed 
where he’d lain inviolate, untouched by the hands of any 
other bloodline — and then they proceeded to devour him.
Or perhaps they were devoured in the process. The 
records are…vague, and the voices conflicting. 
It seems a contradiction, and yet…I wonder. A few 
of the echoes speak of Saulot in words and impressions 
that flood me with unasked-for thoughts of the Eater 
— echoes of Saulot as a devourer, a thing that could 
feed on the very land itself, or perhaps even on souls. 
It would seem appropriate if he could devour souls. He 
was so very hungry for enlightenment. 
And the childer from Ceoris? His hunger entered 
into them, and…and it may be that it has continued 
to gnaw away at their insides since then. There are…
flickers in the Tremere’s auras that are inexplicable, 
even invisible to most. It makes me shudder to think 
of it, but I cannot help but believe that whatever hun-
ger it was that Brother Saulot had…picked up on his 
journeys to the furthest East, now our newest sibling 
had absorbed it in full. 
That is why the crime of Tremere and his childer 
never drove us to war. Though Saulot was almost like 
family to us all, the family abstained from siding with 
the Gangrel and the Tzimisce who were howling for the 
Usurpers’ blood. Some joined in the battles, of course; 
but for my part, and that of a sibling or three, we wrapped 
ourselves in shrouds and sat on the darkened Carpathian 
mountainsides, witnesses to the savage bloodshed and 
nothing more. I…we felt would have been presumptu-
ous to condemn the Usurpers. Creatures of insight that 
they were, Tremere’s brood were in fact the ideal heirs to 
Brother Saulot’s legacy. They are what he would become. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
24
I could be wrong, of course. I could always be 
wrong. And yet, if the Tremere were really meant to be 
destroyed for their affront, shouldn’t they be no more 
than a memory by now? 
The First Crusade
God willed it, or so they said. God willed them to 
rise up and recapture Jerusalem from the Muslims. God 
willed them to leave their homes and wander barefoot 
into death. God willed them to slaughter Jews in the 
Rhineland as an appetizer for their war. God willed them 
to sack the Holy City and violate its people.
If God willed it, then perhaps there’s some truth to 
the story of God willing us to be as well. 
The fall of Jerusalem in 1099 — the city’s screams 
echo in our minds even now. The bloodshed, the rape, 
the madness — it all cut bloody stripes into the land 
itself. And like spilled wine, Malkav’s blood, his mad-
ness, ran into those channels and pooled there. So 
much blood, so much insanity — yes, the very earth 
shrieked out, and we heard it. The Call had come, and 
we came to see. 
The others, children of other clans, they saw us 
flocking there. To this night, they claim that Malkav 
himself must be buried under the Holy Land, and that 
his dreaming, blinding fever is the spark that ignites all 
the ills of the region. They are…ignorant, foolish even, 
in believing that Malkav’s reach is so limited — but it 
is undoubtedly a sweet ignorance for them, so it seems 
only compassionate to leave them there. 
Plague 
Have you seen, in your dreams, the age when a 
third of all Europe died? 
A choking stink of rot, of unimaginable putrefaction 
mixed with the smells of sweat and shit and vomit blasted 
out of the darkness, swirling in Daniel’s mouth and nose and 
stomach. He tried desperately to vomit, but his body didn’t 
seem to remember how. 
I…I am sorry. I did not mean to call forth so much…
No. You should know. The plagues that blanketed 
all the world we knew — they may yet come again when 
the moon bleeds and the earth cracks. They came twice 
already; the numbers demand a third. You should know. 
Remember — there are connections, patterns with-
out as well as within. The plague of the 14th century 
was more than death. It infested the spirit of the kine 
as well as their bodies. It drove them to flog and flay 
themselves, mortifying their flesh in the hopes that 
their penance would stir mercy in the heart of a piti-
less God and move him to stay his pestilential hand. It 
drove them to turn on their neighbors with staves and 
blades, punishing the outsiders among them for the 
supposed crime of poisoning wells. It drove peasants 
to turn on their lords and masters like rabid dogs, only 
to be savagely put down in return. 
Such is the nature of pestilence. Should the third 
plague come during your time — and I cannot believe 
that it will not — it might not ravage your body. And 
yet…it might, if the babbling of my sire is true, and a 
pestilence which will blast and mortify the flesh of the 
unliving waits below the earth to be unleashed at the time 
of Gehenna. It may be the curse of Nosferatu himself…
No. Listen. If the plague comes, you may…you may 
remain unharmed in body. But the poisoning of the spirit 
which comes on the kine is far deadlier. I lost servants, 
companions and even a childe during the Black Death; 
he drank from a human maddened by the plague, and 
the fever caught in his brain and drove him into the 
sun. We are not immune. We deserve to be afraid.
The Anarchs
…And after the plague…yes. The second wash of fever. 
Younglings are so convinced that they know so much. 
Even if their eyes are sewn shut, they are sure that their 
youth affords them a clearer perception of the world 
around them. That — that was the anarchs. Still-cooling 
childer still learning where best to bite their prey. They 
shouted to the world that they would tolerate no more 
of their elders’ laws. They pounded one another’s backs, 
congratulating each other on their perspicacity. And they 
stretched out their hands to us, sure that we angels of 
illumination and fervor would come and join their side. 
We are not a faction. We are not a political unit. 
We are the Family Malkavian. And never…never have 
we stood as one with any group or individual, living or 
dead, since his death. Never. 
Remember that. Your own cousins will strike you 
down and feast on your vitae should it prove neces-
sary, necessary as they see it. The ties that bind us are 
inescapable; they do not compel our loyalty nor our 
fraternal obedience, merely our…intimacy. 
So. So that is how it ran back then. Yes, there were 
cousins and nieces and nephews and childer among 
the anarchs. Yes, there were elder aunts and uncles 
who looked at the rebels and saw an irritating itch 
that demanded scratching. But many of us looked at 
the anarchs, looked at them from the front and from 
behind and from the sides and from above and below, 
and we saw an accumulation of angry young Cainites 
who were pouring all their faith into an empty sack. 
We — I say we, because I was there, and I did my work 
alongside others of the family who felt as I did — we 
tried to take them by the heads, pry open their eyes and 
show them that their sack was empty. 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
25
I…I have no better words for it. Forgive me. 
And…they reacted angrily. They called themselves 
betrayed. They complained of our hypocrisy — they 
complained of our hypocrisy — and warned us to confine 
our attentions to the elders. 
That, of course, stirred the fever within me…us. If 
there is one thing that I — and we — cannot tolerate, 
it is the belligerent idealization of ignorance. One can-
not exist for years with the Sight and remain generous 
toward the willfully blind.
If written in a textbook, the following years would 
likely be summarized by some well-meaning historian 
as a conflict between our family and the anarchs. If you 
were there, however, it was harder to see such a unity 
of purpose. How much more difficult it would be for 
mortals to piece together the larger picture! A thousand 
separate yet so-similar incidents — a mild visitation 
of visions in Cologne, a more vicious prank involving 
fire in Bonn. Gradually — too, too gradually — one 
anarch after another began to tabulate all the tales of 
Malkavian…criticism they’d heard. One in particular 
— a filthy Gascon — spat blood and brought a stable 
down around his ears when he realized just how much 
energy he and his colleagues had spent on what was, 
after all, a very small rivalry. Had he survived another 
three years, he would have been even more livid to see 
the next thing that came to pass. 
The Camarilla.
I could not see the threads in the pattern then. I 
couldn’t know just how unified the family was then, or 
why. Even today, I cannot tell for certain. Perhaps it 
was merely coincidence, a natural resentment for the 
anarchs’ devotion to blindness that many of our family 
shared. Perhaps there was a group of elders, or even a 
Methuselah, who sent waves of gentle guidance outward, 
convincing much of the clan to act as one. 
I will never know, for this is where the Tapestry 
becomes scarred and pitted by fire. 
The Burning
At last there came a time when the humans would 
have no more of us. 
Fire flooded Daniel’s nerves; his back snapped taut as 
a bowstring, and he tried to shriek. But there was no air in 
his lungs, and he couldn’t think to draw in more.
Vampires had ruled the night for far too long, and 
the kine no longer believed that they had anything left 
to lose. They rose up against all of us, and suddenly the 
family found itself at the front, with nowhere to hide.
Our suffering was…biblical. What Inquisitor could 
tell a case of demonic possession from a broken, babbling 
mind? What Inquisitor would care? The most harmless of 
idiots were sent to the fire along with the most diabolical 
of killers. Where once we’d quietly hidden among the 
broken outcasts, now we were in dire peril. The madmen 
and madwomen burned, and we burned with them. 
The Cobweb, the nerves of Malkav — that was all 
that saved us. Voices of damnation hurried along the 
winds of the night, whirling in our ears, calling out 
premonitions of wood, iron and fire. Had it not been 
for Malkav’s gift, we surely would have been destroyed. 
But panic filled the weavery, and as it came on us, it 
compelled us to run. It saved us. Some of us. 
And yet, for its charity, the Tapestry burned. When-
ever one of the Family, however young, was burnt upon 
a pyre, one of the weavery’s threads snapped forever. 
Elders died in dungeons and at stakes, and as each one 
vanished into ash, his scream seared a great wound into 
the Cobweb. We sobbed at the pain; we tried to hide, 
but we could not escape the pain that filled our blood. 
We needed to adapt, or we would die.
Birth of the Camarilla
It was impossible to miss the stench of fear that arose 
from our kind, all our kind. The smell mingled with the 
smoke of the fires, the incense, the sweat. 
Something happened then that very few of us could 
see. Even I had to piece together the story many years 
later, and it took as many years to do so. As the elders, 
in their panic, struggled against the Inquisition in 
any way they could, and their abandoned or sacrificed 
pawns began to congeal into the first of the anarchs, a 
few of rare vision gathered together with a new idea. 
The new idea, of course, was unity — but you likely 
already understand how reluctant we undead are to 
accept the concept. 
I can imagine the first meetings. Such terrified crea-
tures, demigods with their temples tumbled down around 
them, vicious as cornered dogs, forced into each other’s 
company for survival. I wonder just how many “diplomats” 
died, were ground to dust to mortar the Camarilla’s bricks. 
It must have been a great many, for the Camarilla — the 
mighty Camarilla — nearly failed. The elders involved 
were splintered and sharp-edged, and had little reason to 
trust one another. And because our get, our cousins were 
so often easily rooted out and sent to the fires, we might 
almost have been excluded from their cabal of secrecy. 
Yes, the last of our line (barring his childer, of course) 
might well have been thrown as a sop to the Church, 
destroying the family, the Tapestry, all of it. 
But it is always a mistake to underestimate the 
insight granted by the infection. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
26
Unmada and Vasantasena
A faint scent of spice, mingled with the smoke of burning 
dung, floated around Daniel’s shuddering form.…
They came from the Orient — a holy man and his 
exquisite disciple. He was a Brahmin, a seer who nightly 
mortified his dead flesh to gain wisdom. She was a rajah’s 
daughter, a woman with fires burning behind her eyes. 
They acted of an accord, whether it was that of father 
and childe, of soulmates, of lovers — or something 
greater. They were the ones who called us together. 
The two came among the great and terrible of our 
family, untouched by the thorns of their hosts’ fevers, 
and spoke with them as cousins might. Their words were 
sweet and bore their vision well. No Western vampire 
outside our own fallen bloodline could have reasoned 
with us Malkavians half so well; they cannot understand 
our very language, they do not see. But Unmada and his 
childe carried the taint within them. They understood 
us, and in turn they brought us to understand them. 
The family drew closer together because of their words. 
The elder Lunatics of Europe came quietly to the lords 
of the other clans, and they offered their support. The 
others were…hesitant, and understandably so. They 
feared to clasp hands, lest the filth-smeared razors of 
our Sight slash them and leave them burning with our 
disease. But better to have the Malkavians with them 
than against them. 
As I heard it, there were…anarchs who watched 
the newfound unity of Malkav’s get and were filled 
with scorn, or perhaps fear, and they swore they’d have 
nothing to do with anything we had chosen as our own. 
And yet, blessed be the light of inspiration, for many 
others heard of our pledges of support. 
Perhaps they reasoned that if even isolated, frac-
tured monsters such as ourselves were convinced of the 
situation’s gravity, then there was no other recourse. 
An oath of blood and fealty, and it was that simple. 
The Camarilla was born. The mad cousins of Clan 
Malkavian, the despairing philosophers of Brujah, the 
desperate Toreador and Nosferatu, the wild ones of 
Gangrel, the very much hated Tremere and the faltering 
Ventrue. A hundred years ago, and the meeting halls 
would have run with spilt vitae and eddies of ash — 
now desperate times had forged an alliance such as our 
midnight world had never seen. As the “Founders,” as 
you will hear them named, called on the Giovanni and 
Lasombra and Tzimisce and Ravnos to join with them, 
a sort of…optimism was born. A kind of hope that this 
new pact would not only preserve us all, but in time 
offer us full control over the kine once more. 
Of course…it would have been too good to be true, 
and such things can never be real. 
The Convention of Thorns
I was there. This I saw. 
Know that for the Camarilla to survive another decade, 
it was required to catch the anarchs by their withered balls 
and bring them to heel. War — war in earnest this time, 
organized steel-hard and knife-sharp. The Camarilla’s lords 
set out a-hunting, their hounds at their heels. They scented 
out the anarchs’ spoor and tracked the rebels back to their 
strongholds, capturing all they could and butchering all 
they cared to. After…some years of this, the Founders had 
seized enough of the anarch and Assamite leaders — for the 
Assamites had been shedding blood and bringing death, 
too, but this had too little to do with what you need to 
know to drive to go too much further into this — that 
they could force a halt to the chaos. The shadow war was 
all but over, and the only thing left, in quaintly mortal 
fashion, was to dictate the terms of surrender. 
The gathering took place in a tiny English village 
named Thorns, and the agreement was named for Thorns, 
and it grew barbed and sharp by nature. Names and pat-
terns, never far from one another. The elders drew up 
their treaties and offered them to the anarchs (and, yes, 
Assamites, but as I said, that…matters less). Of course, 
the treaty demanded that the anarchs bond themselves 
by blood to the elders. The anarchs had little choice 
but to agree; they certainly could not expect someone 
to speak for them. 
And yet, someone did. Maybe it was pity that drove 
her; maybe it was, as some say, enlightenment. But Vasan-
tasena stepped forward and condemned the Convention 
and its treaty. When the elders prepared to enforce the 
blood bonding of the rebel anarchs, she stepped forward 
to address the fledgling Camarilla once more. 
“We are a wounded people, and this agreement is no 
balm to soothe us. This is a thorn in the heart of all Kindred.”
The words, born of a different voice, rustled deep 
behind Daniel’s ribcage. The prick of the thorn touched 
at his own heart, and the lump of dead muscle in his chest 
almost fluttered. 
That is what she said. That, and much more. She 
spoke of bloodshed that would beget more bloodshed, 
and the need for mercy that would beget more mercy. 
I was there. I saw it all. 
When she finished her speech, blood staining her 
cheeks and wrists, the elders among the Camarilla 
looked on her. They did not smile. Cold…the bonfires 
still burned, but all Vasantasena was offered was cold. 
Some say that she vanished from the Cobweb, 
then and there — that nothing was ever heard over 
the weavery from her again. I refuse to believe that 
she could sever herself from the chains of blood; she 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
27
must still be bound to the Tapestry somehow, however 
faintly. But she has abstained. 
She withdrew from the council, and did not speak 
up again. But — and this much I did not see with my 
own eyes, but I caught the shadow-scent of something 
on the wind on that night — Vasantasena was, after all, 
a rajah’s daughter. She would not be so easily denied. She 
crept into the dungeons where the anarchs were being 
held, and she chose a band of disciples from their ranks. 
They followed her on her flight as best they could, and—
And, yes. They joined with the Lasombra and the 
Tzimisce, and they were among the first of the Sabbat. 
The Split
The agreement may have held, but it could not 
compel goodwill from beasts such as us. Each childe 
Clan Heraldry
Although the fact is not well-known (some might say “suppressed”), the conventional symbols that rep-
resent each clan were chosen, long ago, by Malkavians. 
The first of these was an autistic child from Styria, a boy named Pelinka. His sire, Daguienne, took him 
before his fifteenth year, presumably from pity. Then again, it’s entirely possible that she’d already known of 
his unusual savantism before she drained his blood and gave him Malkav’s gift. 
He was unlettered and mute, and might have seen a knight’s shield twice in his life. But he could draw 
— from memory, it seemed — marvelous symbols that would have made any scribe weep with envy. His sire 
gave him paint and paper and ink and blood, whatever he required, and in return Pelinka drew up manuscript 
illuminations and coats of arms as resplendent as any king could commission. 
Finally, as something of a curious jest, Daguienne asked her childe to draw up her own family’s coat of 
arms. His answer startled her. As she looked on the device in question, she saw nothing of her own personal-
ity reflected there — instead she saw images that reflected her, her sire, and every Malkavian she’d ever met. 
Somehow, Pelinka had seen her true family by watching her, and had tapped into the symbology of her shared 
wisdom and madness. 
Of course, Daguienne couldn’t let an opportunity such as this pass her by. Half of a mind to try a prank 
and half-consumed by curiosity, she gave her childe an exacting challenge — to draw up coats of arms for 
each of the clans, as a series of “presents” to her elder allies. 
Daguienne visited him once a night for 12 nights, and each time he had a new design for her before sunup. 
Without ever meeting a Brujah, Pelinka produced a badge of war and broken chains. Without ever seeing 
even the crudest representation of Egyptian art, he drew a cartouche with unholy Set inside. Each time his sire 
described a clan in even the most cursory terms, he tapped some unknown font of knowledge and symbolism 
to produce something appropriate. 
When they were all completed, Daguienne took the collection with her to a conclave of elders, and 
presented it as a whole to the assembly. They were largely delighted, and although representatives of all 13 
clans weren’t present, those that were present agreed that even the clans in absentia were well represented. 
The only one who took the heraldic devices personally was the Toreador, Rafael de Corazon, who didn’t care 
much for the idea that a Malkavian had produced a work insightful enough to challenge the work of any of his 
own childer. But public opinion wasn’t with him, and Pelinka’s creations were soon popularized throughout 
much of the clans. 
Pelinka’s designs finally fell out of popularity after the Convention of Thorns, for the split between “loy-
alist” and “antitribu” was so bitter that few vampires liked having any reminder of their clans’ failed unity. It 
wasn’t until much later that at another conclave, another Malkavian decided to mark the seating arrangement 
with a broken mirror here, a wilted rose there, and so on. But that’s another story.…
of our line within the fledgling sect was reminded — 
scarred — that we were only barely tolerated by our 
brethren. In some ways, the hatred was almost worse. 
Now that the Cainites were forced to become the 
Kindred, to work more closely with one another in the 
interests of maintaining the Masquerade, many elders 
who might previously have let a Malkavian be instead 
found themselves arranging the Lunatic’s demise. 
Our history is filled with memories of Malkavians 
who dared too much. The weavery is filled with shallow 
slashes, wounds remaining from the Final Deaths of foolish 
neonates. Few elders appreciate a prank that forces them 
to reexamine their place in the patterns of the world; 
none of them appreciates a prank that is done poorly. 
Remember that. A prince of Macedonia — I could not 


Clanbook: Malkavian
28
uncover his name — was targeted by a fool of our blood, 
a fool who went too far. In return, the prince gathered 
together all the Malkavians he could find in his domain, 
had them hurled into a well, and then poured fire down 
on them. For centuries afterward, we shunned Macedonia. 
Word passed from one great-uncle to another, and 
eventually it was decided that some sort of gesture might 
be required in order to gain further goodwill from the 
others. We pondered the matter in whispers and visions, 
all the usual methods of family communication, until 
finally we came upon an answer. 
Now. Some thought that the antitribu developed 
their powers of infectious insanity as a response to the 
violence of the Sabbat. Perhaps some still believe this, 
but they must be much fewer since the…stirring. Oth-
ers now believe that the Malkavians of the Camarilla 
deliberately forsook their deeper connection to Malkav’s 
power, letting the delirium atrophy within themselves 
as a gesture of friendship — that they cut themselves 
off from this power before joining the Camarilla. 
They, too, are wrong. 
It was a sacrifice, you see. Many of our elders decided 
that the Camarilla offered a better chance for survival. 
And for them to survive within the Camarilla, it might 
be for the best if they were somehow to…dampen the 
virulence within themselves. 
So that is what they did. 
The history of the other clans fails to record the two 
months in which most of the Malkavians of Europe simply 
— weren’t to be found. They left their haunts and havens 
to go on pilgrimage, following a great Call that led them 
to Domazlice. There were so many of them, too — for the 
elders had sent out the Call, and few could resist hearing it.
The elders — they were strong and wise and terrible. 
A wash of heat…a high-pitched, discordant tittering…
the slick grating of teeth…firelight and hollow whispering… 
The Dionysian had shed the earth he slept under; 
his laughter drew us to the revel. Addemar, wrapped 
in his hermit’s robe, scowled down on the gathering. 
Tryphosa rocked back and forth, whispering riddles into 
the air. Brude’s pale skin glistened with sacred patterns 
and holy script, and the Black Hag squatted in a pile 
of bones, drawing her teeth across a scarred, fleshless 
femur. And amongst them all stood the wise one, the 
mortified one, the Easterner — Unmada. 
Six Methuselahs. 
Daniel cried out noiselessly.
Six Methuselahs. Six. A great, merciless power, swollen 
between them, taut and bloated by their proximity. Their 
fever hung in the air, and it would have flayed any mortals 
luckless enough to attend the gathering. They pulled at 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
29
the fabric of the world to release a Call that all of us could 
hear. Then they gathered their might, drew down the 
power of the flow of Malkav’s splintered consciousness…
Daniel, half-conscious, rocked back and forth as invis-
ible, relentless waves crushed him. 
…and they changed us. 
They changed us. 
They set blocks in the minds of all the Malkavians 
gathered there — and it was nearly all the Malkavians 
in the world. Nearly. 
Some…some, of course had resisted the Call — and 
some had been set apart. We could not renounce the 
fever entirely, you see, only some of the gifts that spring 
from the fever. However, we could not let those gifts 
die. Some of us, the strongest among us, had to retain 
the Sight in full. And whether they’d been deliberately 
chosen or had avoided the Call entirely, the unchanged 
joined with the Sabbat. Those who were altered, who’d 
received the blocks, joined with the Camarilla. 
And…
And the others never really noticed the difference. 
Impossible. It still seems impossible. The crushing 
weight of their power, the pain…it still seems impossible 
that we could have concealed this, that we could have 
forgotten for so long. And yet, they never noticed. If the 
Camarilla “true-bloods” tended to use their gifts for more 
subtle…less splintering effects, the outsiders, in their 
remarkable blindness, simply presumed the reason to be 
a newfound taste for subtlety — subtlety — nothing more.
With that great work completed, the bloodline was 
preserved. The greater portion of us would have better 
odds of survival until such time as our gifts were needed 
again, and the smaller portion with the greater Curse 
would be able to survive if necessary. Eventually, most 
forgot that the gathering had ever happened at all. 
Still, it would probably be best not to be too confident 
in any one explanation. A few of us share a trickle of 
doubt — the thought that it may have all been a tre-
mendous prank on the part of Unmada and his childe. 
Perhaps they are waiting somewhere for us to strike our 
brows and cry out that we’ve finally gotten the joke. 
In the end, though, whimsical or not, it was an im-
pressive prank. The children of the Sabbat proclaimed 
themselves the heretics of the clans, the “anti-clans,” 
the creatures dedicated to the downfall of their very 
progenitors. And they accepted without condition that 
the Malkavians who joined them were also “antitribu,” 
also rebels — just as the Camarilla accepted that the 
Malkavians who joined them, apparently free of the in-
fectious qualities that plagued so many of their brethren, 
were the “true” descendants of Malkav. 
And now the jest is revealed. We have yet to see if 
our distant cousins have learned anything by it, however. 
After the Inquisition
The Renaissance
I can…imagine that the Kindred were somewhat 
surprised when the Inquisition’s fires finally guttered 
out, and the vampires drew back to draw a…figurative 
breath, and they suddenly noticed that humanity had 
become most interested in bettering itself. Down in Italy, 
Petrarch had started asking more and more questions 
about his country’s past, and…and suddenly popes and 
princes and emperors were all interested in the answers. 
I mention the Renaissance…not because it was 
an important time to the family, but because our more 
distant relatives as a whole linger over memories of the 
age, savoring them like a soup bone. The elders who 
played at sophistication sharpened their fangs on Ma-
chiavelli, and discovered that this interesting Alighieri 
person had been composing some poetry. Most remark-
able — most frustrating — of all was the incredible way 
that they began to claim that they’d been involved in 
The Great Prank
The feat of replacing Dementation with Domi-
nate, nearly clan-wide, was certainly unprecedented 
— only the Tremere’s curse on the Assamites is 
comparable, and that involved sorcerous rituals such 
as the world hadn’t seen. It certainly wouldn’t have 
been possible without the presence of the Cobweb 
linking Malkavian to Malkavian. 
Even so, it’s entirely possible that the six 
Methuselahs credited with this work weren’t suf-
ficient to work such a massive change. Certain 
Malkavian apocrypha hints that perhaps the great 
reworking succeeded because one — or possibly 
even more — of the Fourth Generation invisibly 
lent their power to the Methuselahs present, in 
order to insure success. 
The other theory, a theory that is never repeated 
aloud, is that Malkav himself sensed the six’s efforts 
and willed the change to take effect. But this theory 
is kept very secret, for its ramifications are terrifying: 
one, that Malkav has such power even in his current 
unverifiable “lost” state; two, that he might have 
been conscious at the time; and three, that he could 
work such a tremendous change in all his childer 
while still dreaming. The implications of the last 
possibility…well, if true, then when Malkav wakes, 
the entire clan is his.


Clanbook: Malkavian
30
these advances all along — as if they’d been sipping 
vitae in Boccaccio’s studio instead of cowering under 
bridges, hiding from Inquisitors. 
I would grind my teeth at the though, had I teeth 
and a jaw left to me. 
There was something that…left marks, scars on the 
family in this age, though. The institution of the asylum 
had gained a certain amount of…popularity by then. It 
almost seemed as though every fashionable city was in need 
of one. Cudgels and whips and chains — the medicines 
of choice. For those who could not see the Normal for 
the fractures in their looking-glass, the preferred means of 
treatment were a healthy flogging to drive the ill humors 
out, and then a prolonged stay in a filthy cell. 
The childer of Malkav taken during this time…well, 
there were those who had never seen the inside of an asy-
lum, and there were those who had. The privileged among 
us — of the time, of course — were artisans, visionaries 
with strange preoccupations of drawing forth art from 
the Sight. They were almost popular in the courts of the 
princes as something of a novelty. If a childe was selected 
from the ranks of the refined, then she was welcome to 
sup nightly with the other luminaries, regaling them with 
her off-kilter songs of a world beyond the vision of even 
the greatest thinkers of the time.
The others…the others were savages. Like the worst 
of the previous age, the ones who were first to burn in 
the Inquisition’s fires. They saw little of princes’ courts 
and Elysia; they skulked amongst the dirt and blood and 
filth, alongside the more unfortunate mortals of the time. 
More than a few became shadow-killers, daggers in the 
hands of their elders, a neat tool to provide an ending 
to a particular gentlemanly intrigue. Some of them were 
disposed of when they became inconvenient — others 
were…kept. I believe they are still in use today. 
The New World 
Were you born after a mortal set foot on the moon, 
on our moon? Then you cannot conceive what it was 
like for the kine when they suddenly saw past the walls 
of what they knew and discovered that there was more. 
Europe shook with the news of a whole new land, of im-
mensities beyond their imagination. Oh, and we trembled 
with excitement as well. Our shared blood boiled into an 
excitement that hadn’t been seen since the Inquisition. 
It was as if we’d been sharing a small jest, and suddenly 
all the world was in on the secret. Humans had dared to 
walk where the dragons were, to look at what they thought 
they knew and see something else entirely, waiting there 
for them. To some of us, the worlds they had been seeing 
all along had suddenly taken physical form. There was a 
world beyond the senses, beyond the immediate. 
And waiting there was death. 
Impatient and reckless, a few of us chose to follow the 
first colonists. The new country beckoned them, a place 
with so much more to see and touch, and new people to 
whisper to and pry into. And the temptation was that it 
was safe, a land where a few vampires could be the lords. 
They were right. No vampires awaited them. But 
the New World was not lacking in wolves. 
Very shortly thereafter, we resolved to wait for the cities. 
Mob Rule
Come the latter half of the 18th century, human hate 
and frenzy was calling the madness again, and again the 
madness pooled in France. Starved kine sliced tender flesh, 
tore out hair and nails, raping and killing and mutilating 
and finally executing whomever they could catch — who 
was born into the upper class, of course. And with that 
pooling came the Call once more, and we descended on 
Paris. I was there. I fed well on the corpses that littered 
the streets, on aristo and peasant alike. I watched the 
primogen of Paris flee like dogs, and I helped myself to 
everything they’d left behind. Eventually the fever lifted, 
and the country returned to…propriety, to order, to the 
Normal. But the scars are still there. Something of us — of 
him, even — remains in the City of Lights, and perhaps 
Gehenna will bring it to the fore once again. 
The Degeneration of the 
“Antitribu”
So if the Camarilla Malkavians were the “real” 
antitribu of the clan, and the Sabbat’s own were the 
“true” bloodline, an interesting question arises: Why 
are the Sabbat Malkavians so fucked-up? Were the 
Malkavians prior to the split just as psychotic and 
deranged; do the “antitribu” represent the purest 
state of Malkav’s bloodline? 
The answer has something to do with the 
Sabbat itself. The traditions of the Vaulderie, the 
Rites of Creation, the suffering of each human at 
a blood feast — over time, the practices of the 
Sabbat have fed the Malkavians’ madness until it’s 
grown beyond what the clan once was. Too much 
of a good thing, really. 
In a way, this means that neither line of Malka-
vians in existence today is fully of the same blood 
as Malkav’s own childer; both are in their own way 
antitribu, even with the resurgence of Dementation 
among Camarilla Lunatics. But then again, given the 
virulent nature of the clan, who’s to say how many 
times the bloodline has changed from sire to childe? 
And then again, it’s entirely possible that among 
the Inconnu hide the “truest” Malkavians of all…


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
31
Subconsciously, we — or one of us with superior 
will — must have decided that it was a superb time for a 
conclave. Quite coincidentally — of course — a Parisian 
doctor, amidst all the chaos, resolved that perhaps the 
poor wretched lunatics under his care might do better 
if they were allowed some more freedom of movement. 
He was right, of course. As the Reign of Terror proved, 
lunatics are much happier and much more sated when 
allowed to run free for a time. 
The 19th Century
“…webs of smoke and steel will smother the heart of the 
land amidst flames as the people cry out in their labors…”
Faster and faster the wheels seemed to turn. When 
news of the New World had flooded the courts, the world 
had suddenly seemed so much larger — now human-
ity was doing its best to grow into the world. Fury and 
energy and excitement, cities bloating with mortal life 
even as other mortals carried the seeds of new cities off 
into the wilds: The boundaries were being set, and the 
kine were resolved to fill them. 
The childer of the Sabbat and the Camarilla began 
a dirtier, more energetic feud in the American West 
and in Mexico; it was only a taste of the bloody wars 
that drifted in shadow only a century into the future, 
but their viciousness was…notable at the time. Cousin 
fought cousin for a space; I felt the deaths of three of my 
own close relatives, slicing into my consciousness as the 
Cobweb’s strands vibrated. But we were fortunate; we 
avoided slaying one another en masse. There is no long-
standing truce between the “tribu” and the “antitribu” 
— don’t be fooled by my account — but an unspeakable, 
persistent instinct hangs with us, an instinct to preserve 
the strands of the weavery. Logic, of course, dictates that 
one never knows when a cousin’s insight might prove 
useful — but when logic fails in the face of something 
greater, the instinct is sometimes all we have. 
The Industrial Revolution thrust itself up from the 
ground like an iron oak full-grown overnight. Cities 
swelled like cancers, like boils fat with oil and smoke and 
rust. Again, the elders of the other clans were ill-prepared 
for the frenzied changes that came on the world. Twenty 
years was no longer an idle time to sleep and outwait a 
generation — it was enough time for the world to change 
anew. I could not give a number to the vampires, scions 
of all the clans, who found themselves taking more and 
more childer, simply to have thralls who could explain the 
latest technological and cultural developments to them. 
And with the swell of the cities, the lost, abnormal 
and insane had even fewer places to go. The village idiot 
had it fairly well off — at least his community was small 
enough that the residents felt a responsibility toward 
him, and they might find themselves inclined to listen 
to his observations now and again. Now the population 
was too large and too busy to let the touched wander 
where they would. The world was mad for building in-
stitutions — prisons, hospitals, and of course asylums. 
It was simply necessary, or so they reasoned, to put the 
troublesome and dependent…somewhere else. 
And then, of course, the Dix woman brought the 
asylums into the public eye. American, oddly enough; 
who would have guessed that an American woman would 
change so much where the finest European physicians left 
off? She was a schoolteacher and a nurse, and finally she 
decided to be a reformer. Oh, it wasn’t as casual as my words 
might imply — the woman did teach Sunday school to 
female convicts, and thus she discovered how easy it was 
for the state to throw criminals and madmen into the same 
prisons in order to remove them all from the public eye. 
She was somewhat unlike the crusaders of previous 
ages; she actually managed to do the family some good. 
Her asylum reforms proved beneficial — largely — for 
diseased humans, to be sure. But her insistence, her 
advocacy of the notion that the mentally ill required an 
environment all their own for proper treatment, swelled 
the number of inmates in each asylum. As each one was 
refit, it was soon filled to capacity and often beyond. 
This proved…convenient, for those of us with 
interests in the asylum business. 
The Age of Victoria
But in England, a strange collection of years had 
begun, a peculiar time that stays in the heart of the 
Kindred. Even today, the kine, with their books and 
moving pictures and nightclubs — even they recognize 
Victoria’s time as a time when vampires emerged into 
the greater picture, if only, they presume, fictionally so. 
Most assume this is all due to a single book. No. 
Sensationalistic fiction cannot explain the vibrations 
along the Cobweb’s strands that hum with the fevers 
of the time. It cannot explain why the collective host 
of vampires, creatures from every clan, lick their chops 
to remember the Victorian age. It was a vampire’s time 
in fact as much as, moreso than fiction. It was a Mal-
kavian’s time no less. 
First, you must understand that the kine burned 
— quietly, and furiously, like furnaces hidden in the 
basement. They had taken the Normal to their breast, 
and they had nursed it and fattened it until it bloated. 
The Normal demanded that the kine wall off the animals 
within them, that they submit themselves to the cold, 
stony caresses of order and propriety. 
Remarkable. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
32
But deceive themselves they did. They did their best 
to wall off their animal sides under a brick-and-plaster 
façade of genteel calm — and went astray only when 
they were certain that the Normal wasn’t watching. 
And when they chose to secretly break from the ac-
ceptable — they did so with such fervor that the fever 
caught at them, played around the edges of their beings 
like ashes swirling around a fire. The poetry of Rosetti, 
Tennyson, Swinburne; the writings of Wilde and Pater 
— mere shadows of the passions that burned beneath 
the marblelike Victorian breast. The pressure…like a 
stopped teakettle. When the cracks started to appear, and 
the emotion began to leak out — it was remarkable what 
the kine would do to themselves, and to others. This is 
why we remember the time. This is why it sings to us. 
So many cracks, fractures, breaks…Spring-heeled 
Jack did his bloody business, and so many Kindred were 
convinced that because he was clever and quiet and 
obviously mad, he must have been one of us. There 
was a token blood hunt called on a caricature named 
“Lord Fianna,” but it never amounted to more than a 
sweet little gesture to pacify the drawing-room enfants. 
God had died, or so Nietzsche claimed. The universe 
was revealed as a cooling corpse, or so ran Clausius’ 
theories. The bones of great dragons were pulled from 
the stone, vast and ancient things from an age that 
common sense — and you know that common is often 
another word for worthless, with the blindness that…
An age that common sense claimed could not have 
been real. And so many, so many mortals decided that 
the things they saw, the bones of the great beasts, were 
placed by a God to impede their vision, to test their 
faith in a world invisible — that the true way was to 
disbelieve their senses, their very logic, and follow what 
they knew. 
If I believed in a God, I would believe in that one. 
Remember this: When Nietzsche died, he was largely 
considered to be deranged. The laws of propriety rule 
that a mortal man cannot stray too far from what is 
acceptable and still be…sane. Despite the knowledge 
granted them by the transition through death, our dis-
tant cousins are still in the grasp of propriety. They still 
believe that our infection, our Sight is a frailty — that 
by outstripping what is Normal, even for our kind, we 
are somehow broken and useless. 
Do not believe them. 
Finally, the wheel turned again, but not, perhaps, 
for the better. It turned to mark a century of wildness, 
growth and fever; the one last century we had remaining 
to us. The one last century before…Gehenna. 
The words were carried on a rustling, trembling, cold 
wind. Panic clutched at Daniel, and his legs began jerking. 
His fingers scraped for purchase, but caught only soft, 
yielding things that pulled apart. Invisible hands clamped 
around his wrists, his ankles, his dead heart. He struggled, 
desperately trying to break free, to flee into quiet darkness, 
but the grip was unrelenting.
Hold on, damn you! You have to hear the rest!
Hold on!
Hold on, Daniel!
He stretched open his mouth and strained, but the 
scream wouldn’t leave — it just squatted in the back of his 
throat, choking him.
Modern Nights
So many changes, in a mere hundred years. 
An eyeblink after man created mechanized wings, 
he was using them to kill. Barbed wire, poison gas, 
machine guns, shrapnel — the dying cried out in an-
guish, and their cries echoed across all of Europe. The 
Cobweb shuddered. 
Desperation blossomed. The gold-paved streets of 
the United States tarnished, and the ribs of the Western 
world cracked. A world that had thought it had outgrown 
famine and poverty learned otherwise. As the poets noted, 
a great hollowness had crept into the heart of America, 
and it devoured what it found there. Many of your cousins 
today were taken in this time; sometimes we deemed it a 
small mercy to liberate them from the demands of their 
hungering flesh, and sometimes we were drawn, mothlike, 
to the power of their desperate emotion. I have…I had 
a childe myself from the Depression. 
I wish that the part of me who remembered her had 
not drifted away. All I recall is her thin, pleading face. 
Such a short space of time… Even as America fought 
to rebuild itself, to solder its cracked spine whole again, 
the pulse of the world beat faster. I cannot fault the 
New World, or even the elders of the land, for failing 
to recognize what else was coming. 
A small man took power in the Old Country, a 
small man who might have seemed most unassuming 
if you met him casually in a café. He, like us, was easy 
to underestimate. When we saw him for the first time, 
we feared him, not knowing why. We counseled our 
brethren among the clans to keep well away from this 
man and his circle, for their hands dripped with blood 
yet to be shed, and their eyes were lit with a madness 
that we could not rein in. And when the tanks rolled 
forth and the slaughter trains began to run, we cried out 
in terror, afraid that his fever, a fever with the power of 
a demigod, would catch us all alight. We feared for our-
selves, for we knew that we’d been proven right. To our 
Sight, it almost seemed as though Gehenna had begun. 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
33
Once more, the Call came — but it was a broken, 
many-throated voice. So many slaughterhouses, so 
many lost lives, so much suffering…it was too much 
sensation, and it burned like the sun. Rather than flock 
to Germany, we fled. Madness pooled there, but only 
the strongest could walk amongst the monsters already 
gathered — the human monsters — and survive. 
When the war finally ended, it was in a merciless 
blast of light. A pillar of white…the sky tore apart, and 
the earth below…it seemed the beginning of the end, 
the beginning of Gehenna. 
If you were human, you could believe that the sign 
was premature, for a near-lifetime has passed between 
that burning and tonight. But you are immortal, and a 
decade is like a pulsebeat, and you can see. 
Reawakening
For a few decades, our communal worries were at 
ease…somewhat. The world kept turning, more swiftly 
than ever before, and humanity exploded in fertility. 
The cities grew thicker and denser and madder than 
ever before, and it was really all we could do to keep up. 
Technology spread like an epidemic across the Western 
world, changing the way people lived their lives every 
few years or so. None of the Kindred could see the teeth 
of Gehenna as they began to close. 
There was something of a backlash against institu-
tionalization later in the century. The fever to reform 
was burning again, and once more the conditions of 
asylum living were dragged into the public eye. The 
asylums, now, were not the only targets — halfway 
houses, work-release programs, and so on, all flour-
ished with the new desire to “normalize,” to bring the 
ill-adjusted and unstable back into the “mainstream.” 
Citizens demanded more from their institutions, and 
not all of those institutions were able to comply. So 
the criminal, and the retarded, and the unstable began 
to trickle onto the streets — and it was an interesting 
thing, adapting to this change.
The true measure of the kine’s compassion was taken 
once the inmates were disgorged from the asylums. Still 
unable to fully fend for themselves, the mentally ill were 
shunted into boarding houses and nursing homes, where 
their caretakers were…much more lax. Those that were 
less fortunate found themselves on the streets, or in 
temporary shelters — and there were quite a number of 
them. In the early 1980s, an American president decided 
that his country was spending too much on mental care, 
and so released further waves of the unstable onto the 
streets. And the madness bred and multiplied. 
The outsiders didn’t react so well to this. To their 
way of thinking, every half-wit stranded on the streets 


Clanbook: Malkavian
34
was another potential resource for our family. They 
began to suspect our bloodline of extensive prepara-
tions to expand our power base drastically. More than 
a few princes and archbishops quietly sanctioned their 
underlings to feed as freely as they liked from the 
homeless and mad — not only would such people not 
be missed, but it would hopefully undercut the “grand 
Malkavian plan.”
Given all this paranoia, it must not have seemed 
quite so coincidental to them when the Reawakening 
came. 
1997. It was if all our minds were so much heaped 
dry tinder, awaiting a fire. That was when the con-
nections came alive. The conditioning blocks secretly 
placed after the Convention of Thorns so long ago came 
loose. The madness flowed from mind to mind, opening 
the secret eyes in each one. Where the infection had 
merely lain dormant in the Camarilla antitribu, it now 
burst forth in full bloom. 
We tell those in the Camarilla that it was the fault 
of the Sabbat “antitribu” that we were affected with this 
plague. Those few in the Sabbat who noticed any change 
at all demanded much less explanation. They already 
look on the family as almost contagious — and rightly 
so, it seems. Just another outbreak of disease, brought 
back under control easily enough, that’s all. And that’s 
all they need to know. 
Why did the Reawakening come on us? Perhaps it 
had something to do with Malkav shifting in his bodi-
less sleep. Perhaps Ravnos’ death-scream was so sharp 
that it reached back through time to caress us all.…
Yes, Ravnos. You remember. 
The Week of Nightmares
Do you remember? 
A gibbering howl from a thousand throats… 
…wet, tearing noises like sodden, spongy bones pulled apart…
…cries of ape-throated demons shrieking themselves raw…
…flashes of fire burning against eyelids, outlining a giant 
of sooty skin who slices nine of his ten heads away and devours 
each one…
…the stench of blood and butter sizzling in the depths of 
a bonfire…
Do you remember the Week of Nightmares? Do you 
remember the reports of hurricanes in India? Or is it 
your own fevered dreams that linger with you? 
The demon god of lies woke hungry in far-off Cathay, 
feasted, and finally died. When he sprang from the earth, 
he was thirsty for the blood of his own, he was boiling 
with fury, and he was mad. Such insanity and such 
thirst; his shrieks for blood echoed in all of our heads, 
and we fled from him. The creature we name “Ravnos” 


Chapter One: The Tower of Babel
35
had awakened, and there was very little anyone could 
do to resist his horrible nightmares. 
We clutched at our skulls, and we cried out for re-
lease from the nightmares. His fever — an echo of his 
fever — burned across the Cobweb, touching each of 
us with licks of heat and fire. How much worse his own 
grandchilder had it, for they died in each other’s mad, 
bloodied embrace. At last the cries and the visions and 
the pain ended, and we shook with fear. You shook with 
fear. Nobody needed to explain to you that something 
terrible had happened.
The Antediluvians are real. One of the Thirteen 
woke, raged, feasted and finally died, and all his get 
died with him. 
You didn’t need any explanation. 
You know what is coming. 
Gehenna
“So, too, our Grandsires will rise from the ground
They will break their fast on the first part of us
They will consume us whole”
The time grows nearer and nearer still. The hideous 
eye has opened in the heavens, and its awful red light 
colors our sight. We see crescent moons everywhere — 
for we are the Clan of the Moon, after all — and wonder 
which one marks the last Daughter of Eve, and which 
are deceptions planted to mislead us. The blood runs like 
water, and the potence in it withers. The time is upon us. 
We are haunted by visions. Not a night passes that 
cousins do not wake from their day’s slumber streaked with 
bloody tears, crying out against the prophetic nightmares 
that have come on them. The visions catch at you, too 
— I could never have found you if you weren’t marked. 
Our curse has come on us a hundredfold in these Final 
Nights, for we are the ones doomed to see what is coming. 
The Prophet of Gehenna — he warned of all this. And 
now he is fallen, eaten, subsumed. The time is coming. 
He was blessed with the vision of Octavio, who saw. 
But alas, the memories that he carried were lost with 
his Final Death. He was extinguished, and his visions 
guttered out — they have vanished utterly from the 
weavery. When we arrived to bear his dust home, we 
found some of his last scrawls, a few scraps of foretelling 
that he’d hidden within his writing—
But they are incomplete, and the prophecies that 
remain are in the possession of a childe of Set. 
And as you can see, the patterns are whirling and 
clicking like gears; and like gears, they fall into place 
once again. 
This is why I chose you. This is why you had to hear 
all this. You must be ready. The Ravnos were not ready, 
and they were devoured. The others are not ready, and 
they will be devoured as well. 
You must see the patterns. You must learn from what has 
come before. You must be able to look into the future, and 
to divine the final signs. You — we — we have the Sight. 
You cannot look away. 
At last, he uncoiled; his stiffened limbs cracked and 
fought as he pulled them free of himself. His mind was aboil; 
his movements were strangely, smoothly precise. A faint 
pulse of heat, some half-remembered ghost-fever flickered 
in his forebrain. He flexed his fingers reflexively, and was 
only somewhat aware of the odd stickiness that clung to his 
skin; a portion of his consciousness then noted that he was 
greedily licking the still-warm fluid from his hands. 
Daniel sat quietly, no longer himself. Like some form 
of fleshy mantis, he meticulously licked each finger clean, 
then daubed the remants of the blood from his face. Then he 
lurched to his feet in one swift jerk, and then, like a drunken 
puppeteer’s marionette, he staggered away. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
36
™


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
37
Chapter Two:  
Inside Bedlam
If you find you are falling into madness — dive.
— Malkavian proverb
I keep on dreaming during the day. I thought that was 
supposed to stop — not that any of the others ever talk about 
dreams, so I don’t really have anything to base that assump-
tion on other than a little common sense. At least, I think it’s 
common sense. I’m 20 years dead. I shouldn’t have dreams. 
But then again, it’s not like I can really call what I…
we do during the day “sleep.” Sleep is a restorative. You’re 
supposed to wake up with more energy, but that doesn’t 
happen unless…
That’s the part that bothers me most. When the sun 
goes down, I can usually feel it. Partly it’s the return of my 
strength, however much of that I may have; mostly it’s the 
hunger. Waking up hungry…it hasn’t gotten any better 
with time. But even when what’s left of my innards are 
clawing at me, I think that’s better than when I wake up 
around midnight or so, and I’m not hungry at all. 
The others keep saying, at least when they think I 
don’t hear them, that everyone in my…family is insane. 
Mad. I’ve never thought of myself as insane, not when I 
was alive and not when I became…this. But it’s so hard to 
be sure. What happens when I’m dreaming? Am I actually 
awake, and doing things I can’t remember? 
Are they right? 
Am I insane? 
The Family 
Malkavian
Saw Fitzgerald, of all people, last night. He looked 
rather better than he has any right to, all things considered, 
but there was something around the corners of his eyes. 
I can’t really say what it was, but it felt…strange. I can 
pick a killer out of a crowd from 20 yards away, and I’m 
used to smelling that on Fitzgerald; it’s just in his nature. 
But this extra something didn’t seem like his nature as 
I’m used to it; it was like a bad spot in a potato, or a touch 
of blight. Probably something he just picked up over the 
last several years — God knows I’ve changed myself, and 
plenty. It still makes me uncomfortable, though. I know I 
can’t trust Fitzgerald very far, and even then only on family 
matters, but this new wrinkle is…disturbing.
It was a stupid idea, all things considered, but I ended 
up asking him about dreams and whether they were some-
thing I should be worried about or not. I thought he’d blow 
me off, but he actually sounded pretty interested. Maybe 
I told him more than I should have, because by the end 
of it all, he’d kind of guessed what I was getting at, what 
I wanted to know. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
38
Go to the heart, he said. If there’s any sort of disease in the 
blood, you’ll only be able to find it at the heart of the family. 
So that’s what I’ve got to do. I think I’m sane. I don’t 
believe that my rationality was stripped from me when I was 
turned. Anything that’s happened between then and now 
is no more or less than what’s happened to any other of our 
kind, blood relations nonwithstanding. If anyone’s seriously, 
provably mad around here, it’s our elders, and that could 
be senility as much as anything else. So I think I’m sane. 
I’m a little frightened, though. I know I’m not depraved 
like Becker or Drew or whoever Ringall’s friend was back in 
Waterford. I can see how Fitzgerald or Pearl might be a little 
touched, but they’re not really any worse than most of the 
withered things that flit around in Elysium or the local Rack. 
But there’s no telling how old either of them are…they lie, 
after all. And I know that there’s not a Kindred among us 
who wouldn’t stoop to slander, so it’s not like I have to believe 
those stories about Malkav’s blood — but I have to wonder. 
That’s a good sign, though. If you question your sanity, 
that’s a good sign that you’re probably sane after all. I can’t 
remember where I heard that. 
The Embrace
Start at the root. That’s the sensible thing. Find a pattern.
Unfortunately, it’s so hard finding patterns here, when 
you’re talking about the family. Most of the rest don’t like 
talking about their…their Embraces. Some have a different 
story every time you ask them. So it’s hard to see where the 
common threads lie. 
What little I could get to come together came together 
in Philadelphia, where I managed to get into Pack’s mind 
for a while. He was crystal clear after a few sips, much 
moreso than for any of those self-proclaimed “sane” clans 
it’s been my misfortune to associate with. 
I wasn’t happy to hear about the “reality busters” at all. 
I’d never met one myself, but the fact that they were out there 
explained a lot. These creatures, for whatever reason, are text-
book stalkers. They select their targets a long time in advance, 
then systematically start rearranging their victims’ (yes, victims, 
there’s no need to kid myself here) lives. Maybe they start by 
rearranging their victims’ apartments. Then they graduate to 
hypnotizing friends and relatives into temporarily acting strangely 
or forgetting about their prey. Inducing hallucinations isn’t be-
yond them, either. Basically, it’s like Gaslight all over again, only 
the point is to somehow soften up the victim for the Embrace, 
to get them “used to” their new reality or something. Sounds 
like bullshit to me. That’s probably how Becker and Pearl got 
their hangups, come to think of it. Pack didn’t know where 
this tradition got started — I hate to think of some would-be 
guru starting this whole movement, and then instructing his 
childer to do likewise. No wonder so many other vampires 
think Malkavians are insane. They’ve seen these assholes’ work. 
Then, too, there’s the fact that we sometimes work in 
groups. I have no idea how usual that is — if the Brujah or 
whoever have “coming-out parties” for their new childer, 
I’ve never been invited. But I’ve assisted in — what is it, 
four? — sirings over the years — never providing blood to 
the infant, of course, but always there for moral support, extra 
muscle, whatever. It seems right; after all, an Embrace is a 
family event. But look at the patterns — is that a common 
habit, or specific to us Malkavians? 
Wait. Largely unimportant, either way; that’s just meth-
odology. Motive, now — no patterns at all, not that I can see. 
If there are any, I’m sure they’re not specific to our bloodline. 
I’ve heard about cults of enlightenment — isn’t there a better 
term? — and how they keep on trying to focus on our supernal 
perception and such. But how’s that any different than those 
Tremere freaks? Everything else — well, as near as I can figure, 
Before and After
The Book of Nod claims that Caine forbade the 
Embrace of “those who are diseased, insane, or full 
of ill humors, or they will taint the Blood.” The 
Malkavians, of course, ignore this tenet freely. On 
the other hand, they don’t always flaunt it. 
Basically, it doesn’t matter whether or not a candi-
date for the Embrace is mad beforehand or not, neither 
from a rules standpoint nor from the clan’s perspective. 
The Curse is the Curse, and all Malkavians wind up in 
the same boat. Sometimes the derangement you had in 
life is the one you wind up with in undeath; sometimes 
it’s replaced by another affliction, and sometimes you 
retain your previous dementia and gain a completely 
new derangement post-Embrace. 
The most obvious example is that of mental 
disorders that stem from chemical imbalances or 
other problems that just don’t exist in the vampiric 
body. If a vampire’s endocrine system doesn’t work 
at all, it would make sense that any side effects of a 
damaged endocrine system wouldn’t manifest in an 
undead form. However, sometimes such a disorder 
remains after the Embrace; whatever mark it’s made on 
the person’s intellect is apparently quite deep. These 
disorders can take a very different form in a vampire 
than they would in a human; for instance, a pedophile 
in life might become a Malkavian with an almost 
Ventruelike compulsion to feed only from children, 
or a strangely passionate jealousy that drives him to 
assault vampires who somehow “threaten” children. 
The practical upshot is that the Lunatics who 
were clinically insane before they became vampires 
tend to suffer a little more than those who were 
sane before the Embrace, but that’s really neither 
here nor there, is it?


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
39
it has to do with advancing a sire’s specific agenda or cause. 
There’s no overall agenda to the family; if there’s some sort 
of conspiracy among our line, I haven’t been notified of it. 
…Even then, there was the part when Pack began talking 
about “the infection.” It was a strange way of putting it, too; I 
mean, you can’t just accidentally make a vampire. I’ve never 
made one myself. There’s nothing contagious about it. About us.
Still, he was completely convinced. If I’d focused hard 
enough to look right through his face and down into wherever 
he keeps himself, I’m sure I’d see the same conviction. He’s 
absolutely sure there’s some kind of disease in us, and that we 
can’t help spreading it along. He says sometimes we deliberately 
help it along. And that attitude bothers the living hell out of me. 
I mean, when I was Embraced…
Hmm. Strange.
I’ve got to start sleeping better. I can’t tell my dreams 
from my memories right now. 
The Gnawed
I wonder. Was Pack talking about the ones who come 
through…wrong? 
I should’ve thought of them sooner, I suppose. I’d kind 
of written them off as failed experiments; I mean, I’d seen 
two of them birthed and dragged away, and I suppose it’s no 
wonder I didn’t try to think much about them afterward. 
Sometimes the mind just doesn’t make it. 
If there’s some kind of latent disease in us…Kindred, 
then maybe that’s how it comes through. Those two poor 
bastards… The girl in El Paso, in particular. She just kept 
shrieking and shrieking, even after we’d fed her. For hours. 
And she fought like the devil, too. Strong enough to lift me 
off my feet at least once until we secured her better. And she 
just wouldn’t stop — she just screamed and screamed, even 
while Fitzgerald stood across her and stared into her eyes, 
and I could feel his mind reaching out from where I was.
“She’s Gnawed,” he said. “Nothing left but bones.” And 
me, I didn’t ask any questions. I held her while he drove the 
stake in, and I helped load her in the van, and I watched 
him drive her off. 
Funny. They took the kid away, too. I asked then if 
he needed to be put down — how would a catatonic feed 
himself? — but no, just a shake of the head for an answer. 
Where do they go? I’m afraid to ask. It would be all too 
easy to drain them dry once more without a prince ever finding 
out, and the corpse wouldn’t be any different from a mortal’s. 
For whatever reason, someone farther back along than me 
must need them as they are. Maybe they’re kept as private 
feeding stock for elders; I know that I’ve been tempted by 
the smell of another kin’s blood. I keep getting these flashes, 
though, of great pits with iron bars, part zoo cage and part 
asylum. The thought of those psychotics’ cold hands clutching 
at stone, thrusting through the bars, pleading for release…


Clanbook: Malkavian
40
Funny thing is, I don’t think I’ve ever seen one of those 
crusades voted down. It’s like only the interested parties would 
ever hear the Call in the first place, but I know that’s bullshit. 
I’ve disagreed with the crusades myself now and again, really. 
Heaven only knows why I wound up going along with them. 
Self-preservation, I guess. 
St. Louis has its share of freaks, too. At least it’s not Philly. 
The Camarilla
In trying to discover exactly what I am, I seem to be 
uncovering quite a lot of what I’m not. Um…that doesn’t 
really make sense, but it’s hard to.…
Right. Back to the basics. I’ve spent almost all of my 
nights in Camarilla cities, and that’s hardly surprising; most 
of the family has wound up in the Camarilla, after all. It’s 
really not so much a matter of choice for most of us, I think; I 
mean, you don’t get to choose which sect your sire or grandsire 
sided with back in 1400 or whenever it was. 
They sort of…seem to like it there. It’s not for me — 
sometimes I just get that itch at the back of my skull when 
I’ve been in one place too long, or the dreams start getting a 
little worse, and that’s a sign that I’ve just gotta go, y’know? 
— but the system seems to suit ’em. There’s a lot more talk 
about human endeavor, art and thought and the like, in the 
Camarilla — stuff the Sabbat just doesn’t seem to appreciate, 
or so the stories go. People are more receptive there, at least 
to open discussion. Question the prince and there’s still a 
good chance he’ll mark you down in his ledgers as a potential 
challenge to his authority, and with that usually comes some 
form of retribution. But at least it’s not guaranteed. 
I don’t know if it would be fair to say that the Camarilla 
trusts Malkav’s line. Most of the vibe I’ve gotten is that they 
would rather have the family working for them than against 
them. It’s not really much of a matter of trust; it’s an arrange-
ment of practicality. I imagine we’re much like the Tremere 
to the rest of them — not someone they’d prefer to have on 
their side, but with talents that they can use. 
They sure don’t like Malkavian princes, I’ll say that 
much. It’s probably that same damn prejudice toward some 
imagined “infirmity” — but a Malkavian in power is presumed 
to be nothing more than a figurehead, ably manipulated by 
someone behind the throne. Oh yeah, but we’re too unstable 
for even that; we can’t be trusted to jump any which way, 
so we’re not even any good as puppet governors. Bastards. 
It sure is amusing when the occasional family member 
takes power and does a good job of it. They probably don’t 
expect that to happen too often — or maybe they’re afraid 
that it will happen more often than they’d expect.  
They don’t like to talk about Antediluvians in the 
Camarilla. A point of etiquette? Or fear? It’s an attitude 
that seems largely exclusive to those outside the family, 
and why would they be kept there, and not killed outright, 
if someone wasn’t planning on releasing them someday? 
My imagination’s kicking up something fierce. It’s my 
fucked-up rest cycles. If I’d ever seen such a thing, there’s 
no way I’d forget it. 
Gatherings
The Call came tonight. I didn’t need that; I have too 
much to figure out already without having to spend time 
with the rest of the family in this city. In whatever city this 
is…it’s so damn hard to tell at night, from the ground level. 
And my dreams keep fucking up my recollections, so I’m no 
longer sure which city came first and which came second. 
It wasn’t the first time, of course. I mean, it wasn’t the 
first time the Call had come for this gathering. I’d heard it a 
week ago, faint like an echo, about a thousand miles away. 
I was already on my way, though — I didn’t come here for 
the gathering, I came here on my own business. But the Call 
came again in a few days. It was louder, of course — loud as 
whispering gets, but louder than that cobwebby sound it was 
before. And tonight — again, still whispering, but practically 
in the same room. I mean, comparatively; I know it isn’t 
actually in the room, it’s in the blood—
And it would have been a major breach of etiquette to 
miss the gathering, but I went because I didn’t want to hear 
the Call fluttering continuously all night in my head. If the 
gathering’s on in the city you’re in, you can hear the Call 
all night — probably it’s reinforced from having six or 10 
or 50 of us in one place at one time. I understand some of 
us — Ringall, for instance — can ignore the Call, or don’t 
hear it as loud as I do. Lucky bastards. 
Becker was the one who’d called the gathering. Which, of 
course, meant we were in St. Louis. Funny how I just remembered 
that — how it becomes easier to remember cities by who’s in 
charge rather than the landmarks and the food. Hadn’t seen 
the Gateway Arch yet, and of course I don’t eat. So. Becker. 
Never any telling what’s going to go on at a gathering, 
and this wasn’t any different. Ran for at least an hour without 
any direction, before Becker started addressing us all. At least 
nobody obvious from any of the other clans showed up. Yeah, 
yeah, I know the spiel — anyone who wants to come and 
open their eyes is free to come get an eyeful — but I just don’t 
feel comfortable with some half-decayed Nosferatu or swish 
Toreador looking down their nose at the family. 
I wonder how much goes unspoken at these meetings? 
Sometimes it seems like the gatherings are called for no point 
whatsoever, except for a few of the older ones to contact each 
other and plot in full view of the rest of us. Mindgames, played 
with the family. When we are called on business purposes, 
it’s usually some crusade or another — show this prince the 
other side of reality, smite that anarch down for his trespasses, 
drive these mortals completely bugfuck. 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
41
though. Pack didn’t have any difficulty discussing matters 
of heritage, and neither did Amy-Lynn. It’s hard to ignore 
legends of the founder when you’ve got something in your 
head that sometimes pulses with what you can only assume 
is his shifting consciousness, or memories of his old dreams. 
The Sabbat
I swear, I could get in so much trouble for this. If word 
got out that I was talking with Sabbat, then I’d be banned 
from the city at best, and devoured at worst. And on the other 
hand, any Sabbat pack who caught me in their territory would 
probably nail my intestines to a lamppost and drag the rest 
of me three streets over. This is a sure mark of desperation, 
which I am not taking as a good sign. 
But I’m good. I know what I’m doing. I’ve done worse 
than this before.
I don’t know what it is about the Sabbat, but those of the 
family who’ve sided with them are the ones who turn out the 
worst. It sounds like the reality busters have a real foothold 
in the “antitribu” culture, because it really seems that they’re 
making sure anyone they Embrace is good and crazy beforehand. 
I was lucky to run into Pearl, really; maybe it’s because 
she’s a good bit older than me (and it’s the younger generation 
who really seems to get it in the ass in the Sabbat, probably on 
account of there being so damn many of them), but she’s just 
about as stable as you could ask for. From the Sabbat, that is. 
It was one of those serendipity things; that, or maybe she had 
lookouts watching for me. I’m thinking the former, though. 
We do tend to find one another “accidentally” an awful lot. 
Okay, so it might have been a mistake to turn the con-
versation around to politics. But I needed to open the door, 
to get her started. Once we’d shared a few stories and I’d 
agreed with her enough to relax her (but not so much that 
she’d get suspicious), then I could ask the questions I really 
wanted to ask. It turned out all right, though. 
I listened between the lines, focusing on the things she’d 
never form into words. Her tongue bent around in such a 
way that it became pretty obvious that whatever she’s doing, 
it hasn’t been cleared with most of the ranking princes and 
such of the Sabbat. Something covert, something unspoken 
between cousins…I leaned in, and listened more closely. 
She talked about the silliness of vampire sects making 
war on one another, and behind her words was hiding a scene 
of fire and earth, of the ritual mass Embrace of 10, maybe 
20 newcomers all at once, all of our family. She laughed 
and talked about the trip to Amsterdam she wanted to take 
someday, and in her laughter was a tale of entire packs, all 
of the clan, all bound to their superiors second and the 
antitribu’s purpose first. She mentioned that sometimes she 
missed Chinese food, and something…huge was looming 
behind that little anecdote. 
And then she seemed to guess that I was seeing what she 
was leaving unspoken, and the conversation stopped there. 
Before we split up again, though, I bit the bullet and 
outright asked if she’d seen any sort of signs of madness 
in the blood…stuff that couldn’t be explained away by 
particularly harsh Embrace rites. 
She laughed in my face. 
What a bitch. 
“I’m sorry,” she said, “but that just sounded so fucking 
funny coming from you.” Then she left a nice tip on the 
counter and she got up and walked out.
What the hell is that supposed to mean? 
Autarkis
I think I’ve got more cause to worry. 
“You don’t know how lucky you are,” Hector said. He said, 
“Most of the rest of us, we need protection and a solid hunting ground. 
I don’t know how you do it, moving from city to city like that.”
Shit. He’s got an excellent point. I am one of the lucky ones. 
I can usually find someone to vouch for me in any Camarilla city, 
and I know enough to keep my head down in Sabbat territory. 
I’ve got a bank account large enough to fund the occasional 
red-eye or to hire someone to drive a truck one or two cities 
down the road. (Can’t remember the last time I made a deposit 
on that. I sure as hell picked the right funds when I made those 
investments way back when, or maybe I’ve got the most steadfast 
accountant in the world plugging away for me.)
At least I’m not fully alone, though. Blood runs a little thicker 
than…well, the blood in the other clans, it seems. Except maybe 
the Tremere, but, well. Sure, some of the family have tried to do 
me in shortly after introductions, but I think I was getting treated 
much the same as any other person would have been. We put 
up with each other a little better, probably because of the shared 
burden — I mean, the basic prejudice that other clans have for 
us, what with them thinking we’re all crazy and stuff. 
(Am I? I still don’t think so. I’m still questioning.)
Not a hell of a lot of autarkis out here, though. You kind 
of get isolated from the rest of the family, and that can get 
scary. Plus, there’s that latent terror that if you stay too far 
away from others of the clan, maybe a little too much of the 
madn— the supernatural qualities left over in the world will 
come pooling into you. We draw strange shit; all the lunatics 
come out of the woodwork around us, and all the strange 
accidents start happening near us. Better to have company. 
The Cobweb
Here’s kind of an obvious thought. I wonder: Most of our 
bad reputation must come from the Network. I mean, what 
is it that LeRoi called it? Yeah. The “Malkavian Madness 
Network,” as if it were some sort of radio station or television 
channel or something. That’s not our name for it, of course. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
42
Come to think of it, we don’t really have a name for it. 
The connection is the clan; the clan is Malkav; Malkav is 
the connection. Or at least, that’s the story.  
Well, that’s not specifically true. We have names for it, but 
they’re all different. Metatron; the Mouth of God. The connec-
tion. The Cobweb. The nerves of Malkav. Babel. The weavery, 
some say. “Our name is Legion, for we are many” — and from 
that, the Legion-mind. I’ve heard Gnostic blathering about 
encoded sephiroth, stories about racial memory so advanced it 
allows us to remember things that are still happening — actu-
ally, I kind of like that last one. Racial memory — if that’s true, 
it explains a lot. For me, that is. 
When you get right down to it, I wouldn’t be surprised 
if over half of us had no real idea that the Network exists, 
or at least in the form that I understand it. It just doesn’t 
need an explanation, at least if you’re living — um, wrong 
word — with it. 
I’m actually surprised that none of the other clans seem 
to have something like this — or at least, if they do, it’s odd 
that nobody has ever, ever let slip. It seems so obvious that 
if you’re all connected with the blood ties, that you should 
all have this link of some kind. Like, say, the blood bond. 
Hmm — hadn’t thought of that before. Is the Network 
something similar to that? 
It’s not like the messages come every night. I hear a flutter 
of a voice maybe once a week or so; more often as a gathering 
approaches, of course. Rosegarden’s a lot worse off than I am, 
though; she says she gets those voices every couple of nights. 
She was the first one to the gathering back in ’92, so I guess 
she’s right. On the other hand, take Becker; he almost has 
to be physically fetched if a gathering’s coming. Completely 
blind to the connection, and kind of fucked up for his trouble.
Pack says he thinks that it’s Malkav’s little clever stunt 
on all of us; that he’s wired us to be his security system, so he 
can spy through our eyes and run his portion of the Jyhad all 
the more effectively. That’s bullshit. I refuse to believe that 
Malkav is still out there and awake, much less plugged into 
all our eyes. If he were awake, there’d be no way we could 
not know about it. 
Unless…he woke up during the tide a couple of years back? 
I kind of feel a little better — no, no, I guess I don’t. I 
should feel better, though, because the “voices in your head” 
thing comes from the connection, and maybe that’s where 
we get some of our bad publicity. But I can’t shake the feeling 
I’m missing something. It must be because of that shit-eating 
grin of Becker’s, and that habit Drew has of slicing away bits 
of his skin now and again — as long as they’re part of the 
family, it’s hard to say with any conviction that we’re not 
all that bad off. 
And if they weren’t driven mad by overexposure to the 
Cobweb, then where did it come from? 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
43
Malkavian 
Practices
Pranking
All right, relax: There’s an outside chance that all of 
this — my sleep schedules, these “somnambulistic feedings” 
or whatever they are — is just a prank. 
If that’s true, it’s neither funny nor appreciated. I suppose 
whoever’s doing it — if they’re doing it, don’t get unneces-
sarily paranoid — is probably trying to get me to doubt my 
sanity, to question my role in the clan, to figure out just 
why it is that I belong. Maybe it’s working, then. Maybe. 
I don’t see as how I was being particularly obtuse before, 
though. The pranking — that’s something we direct at 
people who are a little too secure in themselves and their 
perception of “their place in things,” not—
Huh. Okay, look again at that. Maybe I am being pranked. 
The best ones are always subtle, that’s true. Matter of 
pride. Get the target thinking that maybe he’s going crazy, 
or maybe he’s just opening his eyes for the first time. Make 
him wonder which it is. Make him think about the fact that 
even he’s made of skin and bone that can burn — get a feel 
for his own mortality. Get him thinking outside the box. 
“Practical joke” is just such a bad term for it. It goes so 
beyond pratfalls. God, what was that howler that Netchurch 
stuffed in one of his theses? It’s not even really meant to be 
funny, really, not even to us — well, the better pranks are, 
but that’s not the point. Painting all the marble in Elysium in 
those bright colors that the Greeks used to favor; you don’t 
really do that to see the faces of the Toreador. Well, maybe 
you do, but it’s more to see that slow seeping realization 
that they’ve become such creatures of habit that they—
Getting restless now. I’m getting that kind of itch, I 
guess because I’ve been thinking about this so much. Who’s 
set for a little eye-opener around here? Keslo? Maybe. 
Takes a lot of guts to go after the big targets. Maybe I’m 
soft, but I get real nervous when the local cousins start putting 
an entire clan in their sights. It’s only happened twice, sure, at 
least as far as I’ve seen — but God damn, if it wasn’t just about 
the same thing each time — and this in cities a few thousand 
miles apart. The cousins were in character, so to speak, the 
minute they walked into the gathering space. Even the locations 
were kind of atypical, although they made a sort of sense if you 
think like a bastard. The children’s library seemed like a really 
stupid place to hold a gathering, but when everyone started 
acting like the local Warlocks, it was kind of funny in hindsight. 
It must involve some serious surveillance beforehand; I 
can’t speak for anyone else, but I know that Canterer never 
spoke with a clipped Dover accent before the Oakwood 
Street gathering, and she hasn’t used it since. She wasn’t 
playing the part of anyone I saw in the Elysium, either — 
probably one of the lesser lights. 
Damn, but I wish they’d provided nourishment that 
wasn’t a little spiked. I really wish I could remember exactly 
what I was doing then, and who I was hanging with for the 
duration. I feel they might’ve scammed me into playing a 
part, too, but I don’t remember anyone approaching me about 
it or giving me my instructions. Fucking memory lapses…
Nobody said anything afterward, or really called it to 
anyone’s attention, but I get the feeling that both times this 
happened, the gathering was being watched. Probably by 
a member of the appropriate clan each time. That makes 
sense; what’s the point of putting on a fancy show like that 
for our amusement? 
Thing is…if I’m being pranked, a lot of cousins must be 
in on it, and it’s going on outside sect boundaries. I’ve had 
these dreams and lapses on both coasts, and even outside 
the States. I have to wonder why they’re bothering. 
Prophecy
LeRoi is really starting to act like a dick. I have told that 
motherfucker repeatedly that I’m not going to go scurrying back 
to help him out with his little Elysian schemes, that I’m on a 
goddamn mission here. I said to him, “Use this number only for 
emergencies, got it?” And what does he do? He promptly calls 
me up, not even a year into my fact-finding mission, whining 
about he’s starting to get these bad feelings, and that I need to 
start getting all oracular for him so he knows which way to jump. 
“Look,” he said, “there’s really nobody else I can trust. 
And you have the Sight — that is what you call it, too, right? 
You have the Sight, and it’s strong inside you. I know you 
don’t think of yourself in that way, but you have to believe 
me. You can see. The…the you inside, it has vision that you 
have yet to tap. And I need that vision.”
Yeah. I’ll admit it. I’ve got the Sight. I’m one of the family, 
so that means I’m not completely fucking blind. But I swear to 
God, I have no idea why he thinks I’m the Delphic Oracle all 
of a sudden. There are family members out there who make 
a living at foretellings and interpretations, sure. Personally, I 
think they’re pranking the outsiders half the time, and that’s 
damn sure why I’m not going to any of them to run some dream 
interpretations for me. Odds are, they’re in on the prank that’s 
running me ragged out here, so that’d be useless. 
I guess it must have something to do with the family’s 
history, but I still don’t get where this whole “Malkavians as 
seers” thing comes from. Admittedly, it’s a lot less widespread 
than the whole “crazy” rumor — or maybe it isn’t, and the 
outsiders who want to court a seer’s services just keep it under 
wraps. Maybe it’s because of that Umeda guy who started 
foretelling the Camarilla’s birth, or whatever the story is. It 
might have something to do with fishing information off the 


Clanbook: Malkavian
44
Pranks and Prestige
Contrary to popular belief, the purpose of Malkavian pranks isn’t to gain clan prestige. In 
fact, there’s no guarantee that the architect of a particularly inspired prank will gain any regard at 
all amongst his peers. Pranking is actually part compulsion and part intellectual exercise; to the 
Malkavians, it’s as natural as teaching a child to read or pointing out a brilliantly plumed bird to a 
friend who doesn’t see it. It’s almost a method of sharing — sharing the ability to see more of the 
world for what it is. 
Any vampire who’s a compulsive creature of habit is ripe pickings for a prank; for example, if 
he goes hunting in a cycle of the same three clubs each Friday, a Malkavian who knew him would 
probably try having his car towed, barring him from entrance or otherwise disrupting his routine. 
Vampires who are overly set in their ways are just ripe for picking. The exception is the fellow Lu-
natic whose derangement makes him a stickler for order; such a vampire isn’t really due a pranking, 
as he already sees “something other than the cave walls,” and his behavior is just a reaction to the 
greater reality that other clans don’t see. Twisted logic, to be sure, but nobody ever accused the 
Malkavians of anything else. 
A final note: Being a Malkavian, and being expected to prank somebody every now and again, 
doesn’t grant the equivalent of diplomatic immunity. There’s an unspoken agreement between the 
Malkavian elders and the elders of the other clans that only so much “levity” will be tolerated. If an 
idiot childe decides that it’s a good idea to pull down the prince’s pants in the middle of Elysium, 
and the prince decides to exact immediate retribution, the other Malkavians probably won’t lift a 
finger on the prankster’s behalf. The shrewdest Lunatics know when to say when. 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
45
weavery, but that’s just ridiculous — how in the world are 
you supposed to deliberately fish around in what essentially 
amounts to a a pack of voices speaking in tongues in your 
head every now and again? It’s not the goddamn Internet. 
I suppose there are reasons that it’s us, and not the To-
reador or the Tremere. The Toreador just don’t focus enough 
on the ugly and the broken; what little Sight they have is so 
fine-tuned that it’s not really that useful. And the Tremere? 
I suppose it’s easier to trust the neighborhood “Lunatic” than 
it is to put your faith in a butchered cat and some star charts. 
Anyway, I gotta admit that I was really damn pissed — 
maybe more pissed than LeRoi deserved, maybe, but he’s 
just got to realize that I’ve got something that needs doing 
here. I guess it was a little spiteful of me to feed him that 
cock-and-bull story about lying down on his own funeral 
pyre, but he’ll get over it. 
Reality Busting
With what Angheliki said the other night, it’s kind of 
tempting to assume that pranking is part of what gives the 
family our…reputation. Pranking doesn’t really explain it 
all the way, though. Maybe there are more reality busters out 
there than I’d thought. 
No, not necessarily. There doesn’t have to be that many of 
them for word to get around — I mean, those damn Tremere 
still talk about the demon Salubri until sunup, and has anyone 
seen a Salubri in the last 200 years? So if the Salubri are just 
about the equivalent of a vampire urban legend — and if they’re 
supposed to have three eyes, it’s hard to take ’em seriously — 
it’s feasible that the “Lunatic” label might’ve sprung out of 
the stories of Malkavians who like to drive other people mad. 
Driven bastards, I’ll give them that much. At least if 
Ringall is any example. They do have a point in that we can 
see things that mortals and even most other Kindred can’t. I 
doubt that madness is the key to opening those doors, though. 
After all, insanity is an internal thing, right? It’s not connected 
to any outside forces — crazy humans aren’t hooked into the 
Cobweb, right? —  it’s purely in your own head. It’s something 
trying to get out of you, not the world trying to get in. Ringall 
disagrees, of course. And if I didn’t know better, I’d say he’s crazy. 
Wait. One problem there. The reputation for…insanity, it’s 
old. It would have to have started back with the elders, and I’ve 
never even heard of one of the older ones playing at this kind 
of game. I bet that doesn’t mean they wouldn’t do it. More like 
they do it the long way, over time. If that’s true, then I guess the 
only people who could pick up on it would be other elders. So it 
makes sense. It does make sense. Maybe I’ve found the answer. 
Elders and Childer
God, I don’t know what came over Hoxha tonight. 
I’m lucky he had that ghoul handy. 
Okay, I’m going to have to force myself to say it, but I hon-
estly don’t recall ever meeting an elder uncle that wasn’t just a 
little fractured. Time grates on the old ones, I guess. Maybe it’s 
not so much a pattern of insanity that the others talk about, but 
more a pattern of senility. Or maybe it’s just because of the time 
period they were taken. Combination of both, even.
They don’t fit real well into all that Freud/Jung stuff I 
was fed in college. Years on years of convincing themselves 
that they’re crazy, without any of the terms of modern-day 
psychiatry — no wonder they’re bent in ways I can’t really 
empathize with. If you listen to the others, you can hear them 
talking back and forth about Malkavian seers, kind of pretend-
ing that they don’t believe all the stories but not doing a real 
good job of covering it up. The elders, that’s probably where 
that reputation comes from. If you get the Sight and you deal 
The “Antitribu” 
Perspective
We are torn, torn in two. There is a great weight of 
filial loyalty that presses on our collective breast; for, after 
all, are not the insights and enlightenment given to us by our 
collective father Malkav?
And yet, should he stir to wakefulness, the gift he has 
given each of us would tear loose from our very skulls, fly 
from our very veins. He would pool into consciousness, rise 
from our scattered bodies — but where would that leave us? 
Even if what they say is true, and his body remains whole and 
unguarded somewhere, we would all lose part of ourselves 
to feed his activity. 
It is the sacred duty that we hold, the task of all true chil-
dren of Malkav, that we spread his mad seed as far as possible, 
amongst as many of us as we may. If we are fruitful, and we 
are strong, then we can spread his blood and disease so thinly 
that he will remain in slumber. If we reduce his soul to finely 
minced gobbets, so small that we will at last be the infection’s 
master rather than slave, then we can devour his essence, his 
delirium, his wisdom, all the fragments of his divinity that have 
been left in our blood. There is a term, so very modern, yet so 
accurate that I regret it was not coined sooner:
Bite-size portions. 
Even our wayward children in the Camarilla know our 
purpose, and they share it; after all, why is it that they do 
not destroy every last one of the infirm and broken amongst 
themselves? No, they agree to keep the line sound. For every 
foolish, squawking madman that is condemned to Final 
Death, they Embrace two more. Such is wisdom. Such is 
the means to mastery. 
We are really not so different, you see. We are all 
Malkav’s get. And we will yet be Malkav. 
— Drozodny, pack priest, Malkavian antitribu


Clanbook: Malkavian
46
with it every night for centuries, yeah, that qualifies as being 
a prophet or something. No wonder they sometimes figure 
that they’re given their visions by God or some substitute. 
Angheliki’s sire was something like that, or at least I think 
she said so. It’s kind of rubbed off on her, anyway. 
And there’s Marleybone, the Puritan. He’s got that 
Biblical fixation that would give me goose pimples, if, well. 
I heard that it was the same with most of the older ones. 
Comes of growing up in a time when the Church is what 
you eat, drink, sleep, breathe; wasn’t there a study about how 
multiple personality disorder as we know it wasn’t recorded 
until a certain century? And then everything else before 
then that was even close was cases of “demonic possession.”
Urgh. I’d forgotten Mantius. 
The ancillae tend to be a little more recognizable. I 
suppose it’s a byproduct of modern medicine; they’re able to 
cope with the mental shift into becoming…this …without 
having to believe that the voices in their heads are demons 
or something. And the ancillae of the other clans are fond of 
quoting Jung and Freud when they think we aren’t listening. 
This is also, God help us all, where the serial killers 
start popping up. 
Okay, I know they’re not exclusive to the family. I’ve 
heard stories of that Nosferatu organ collector in Detroit and 
the Gangrel who kept slicing single mothers into thin strips. 
Not to mention the Sabbat… But yeah, the family’s had its 
share, from what I’ve heard. Drew’s borderline, but I doubt he 
has the same kind of need to kill — he doesn’t try making his 
own opportunities. Maybe it’s got something to do with the 
Industrial Revolution and what city life became; Jack the Rip-
per didn’t crawl from the woodwork until the 1800s, and he’s 
the earliest serial killer I can think of. The elders, when they 
kill — they just think differently. Products of a different time.
I’m totally against giving the Embrace to maniacs, but 
apparently others disagree. And God, the stories are getting 
frightening. Cities are so huge and dense, and the TV keeps 
flooding the kine’s heads with stresses and superstitions they 
wouldn’t have had before, and religion is fighting with science, 
and people don’t know what to believe — and that’s the latest 
generation of vampires we’re getting. Overdosed on stimulation, 
with so many different visions of the world competing that 
they snap and start carving out their own visions — things I 
could never imagine. The youngest childer, they frighten me. 
What’s really funny is how the modern world seems to 
think that being crazy is no real drawback. It’s the in thing 
to have a therapist. Prozac will make you feel better. There’s 
no real emphasis to just buckle down, to just cope. People 
are willing to admit that they’re dysfunctional, repressed, 
oppressed, chemically imbalanced — anything to shift the 
responsibility for their actions onto the convenient little 
scapegoat of being “just a little out of whack.” And they’ll 
gladly suck down any chemical or undergo just about any 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
47
“treatment” that doesn’t involve too much work on their 
behalf. Pretty soon, people won’t be learning to cope at all 
— just to take their medication on a regular basis. 
Not me. No way. I’m not crazy, and it wouldn’t be an 
excuse, anyway.
Pockets of Madness
I swear to God, I think the alley outside is whispering. There’s 
nobody in it at all, and I’ve looked so hard I’d see an ant take 
a piss at the other end. Maybe it’s ghosts; they say we can hear 
them, now and again. We. Vampires. Not Malkavians. We’re 
not some different species of vampire. Not like the Nosferatu. 
Maybe I’m not making it up. Pack was fond of talking 
about how Malkav’s illness transcended not only distance 
and bodies, but even the blood. He said that it could even 
get into a house, a street, a city — that it would pool in some 
places that had the kind of psychic indentations necessary. 
Like water rolling downhill. 
Hill House. Standing by itself, not sane. Unpleasant thought. 
Now I have to wonder what such a place would be like. 
I’ve heard of the Well of Mirth, but I’d presumed that its 
waters caused hallucinations because of some fouled chemi-
cal composition, but that doesn’t explain why the German 
cousins hold it almost sacred. Maybe they know something 
I don’t; maybe the water’s only part of the answer.  
Would a place like that, a mad place, would it drink 
blood that was spilled there, soaking up the power in the 
vitae? Would it need to? How would it power its broadcasts 
of delirium? I mean, the street down in Paris where they 
dragged out those daughters and—
…
Am I remembering this? 
Clan Traditions
Stabbing into the heart of the clan again. Fitzgerald, 
the bastard, keeps on playing keep-away with the answers. 
Everyone’s playing some kind of giant game, and I can’t find 
out what exactly they’re working toward. 
It’s all about the tools. The methodologies. Thought that was 
unimportant, but I see differently. Now. They have agendas. Of 
course they do, we all do, but there’s patterns. Always patterns.
Infection. They like to use that word a lot. It’s like we’re all 
playing this giant morbid joke on the rest of the world. Like 
we want to be the guy who scrawls “WELCOME TO THE 
WORLD OF AIDS” on his one-night-stand’s bathroom mir-
ror or something. It seems like a pretty fucking juvenile stunt 
when it all comes down to it. But most everyone I know is too 
smart to buy into that whole “Embrace everybody until the 
world’s full of vampires and we, uh, have nothing left to eat” 
line. Drew. The bastard. That’s what he proposes. 
What else? Anarchy. No government, no Sabbat or Cama-
rilla or anything. Self-empowerment for every last vampire in 
the world. Only it’s a long, slow plot, way beyond what those 
adolescent anarchs consider apropos methodology. 
And the slaughtering of the sacred cows — what’s the 
word — Iconoclasm. Dash people’s treasures to bits and force 
them to sift through the shards to find what’s important. The 
tricksters gather here, under this. Iconoclasm is their icon. 
Pearl. She’s one of these. She’s here to destroy. 
And that leads to Illumination. The need to teach. To open 
up the doors of the mind. Ringall, that’s what he wants. And 
lots of other cousins with him. They don’t want to illuminate 
me, though. They don’t want to tell me the truth. What makes 
them think that I’m somehow in the know, just because I’ve 
got the family blood? 
So many cousins and grandparents and aunts and uncles 
— so many perceptions and truths. God, I must be floating 
on the Network, I must not have realized it…so many ideas, 
so many traditions, so many goals…
Take it easy. What else is there? What about Rosegarden…? 
Yeah. Detachment. That’s it. Use the material goods; don’t let 
them use you. Don’t get too attached. Don’t get attached at 
all. Withdraw. Break the chains of the body, of flesh, living or 
dead. Transcendence can’t come if you’re shackled to things; 
nothingness can’t find you then, either. 
Flashes. I can see the divisions. Marleybone — he stands 
for Divine connection. He and the uncles and aunts and cousins 
like him, they find a link between themselves and the sublime. 
The elders call to be chosen; the young ones want to be the 
ones who choose.  
I understand too much…
Can’t shut it out. That’s another trap. Ignorance. If I 
decide to ignore what I’ve learned, I fall with these ones. Zen 
psychotics. Rejection of thought and rationality, nothing left 
but physical action. Malkavians on autopilot. Terrifying. No 
guilt, no shame — no choice. You can’t be punished for your 
choices, because you didn’t choose, you only acted. You can’t 
be faulted for your reflexes. No ideas. 
Nihilism. The ultimate breakdown. I can feel them out 
there. I don’t dare reach out for them; they’re so cold, my 
fingers would freeze and snap off. They’re the ravens waiting 
for Gehenna, the hounds at the gates. So many more of 
them in these last few years before it all ends; they must 
sense the finality as it’s coming, and give themselves over 
to it. Most of them young, younger than me; the elders, 
though, the ones who’ve been waiting for centuries and 
centuries, and are grinding their teeth against whetstones, 
they’re starting to move…
Come on, think! Where do I fit into all of this? What’s my 
agenda? 
The Real Clan Tradition
Traditions are nice, but you really don’t have 
to have any. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
48
Salvation
Is it possible? I’ve dug up so much else. Found so much. 
Found I’m not whole. No, I am whole! But I feel so weak. 
I don’t know how to classify those rumors of redemp-
tion. I mean, you hear them the first time, and you want to 
believe them. Then, later on, once you’ve heard some of 
the other insane bullshit — no, don’t use that word, they’re 
not necessarily crazy — but once you’ve heard some of the 
theories that go rampaging around the family, and some of the 
anecdotes, you learn not to take just any rumor at face value.
But the word. The name. It rings, and it rings right — 
like I’ve heard it before. Golconda. 
It’ll purge the infection, they say. If you free yourself 
from the Hunger, you free yourself from the demands that 
your mind forces on you. (Who are they? I don’t know for 
sure. Voices on the Network.) 
All the powers of the Sight, but the ability to drink it all 
in at once. The ability to stare at the sun without blinking. 
I swear, I wish I could believe in rumors right now. 
The World Outside
Twenty years dead. Twenty. I’m sure of it. It’s the Sight, 
that’s what’s causing me problems. I can see textures — I 
couldn’t do that before. I can almost tell colors with my eyes 
shut, by touching them and feeling how much heat they reflect. 
It’s living — no, wrong word — with that kind of perceptions 
that’s making me think I remember things that I couldn’t 
possibly remember. A hyperactive imagination. Like dreams—
NO. Mustn’t think like that. I don’t dream when I’m 
awake. I do not hallucinate. 
I am only 20 years dead. I can remember only 20 dayless 
years, and 31 sunlit years before then. I cannot remember the 
19th century, or any time before. It’s my imagination. 
Listen to me. I’m rationalizing. I don’t actually believe 
everything I’m saying, do I? No. I don’t want to believe that 
I’m insane, but I still wonder. That’s a good sign, wondering. 
Wondering whether I’m sane or not. By rights, that should 
mean that I am sane. 
But they aren’t memories. 
Assamites
Listen here, child. Here’s a secret. For free. 
You see, Assam or Hakeem or Mustafa or whatever those 
blood-parched devils call their primordial god-monster father, he’s 
a severed god, too. Just as was Malkav, he was hewn into bits 
and scattered into the mouths of his younglings. The same thing. 
Only — and this is an “only” you should pay careful heed to, O 
best beloved — Assam did not settle into the minds of his childer. 
Where did he go? Well, what does an Assamite love best? 
Learn this, and you learn where their own forebear dwells.
But that’s why they’re not the beasts they once were. He 
stirs in them, just as Malkav stirs in us. And oh, I feel sorry for 
us all when the Assamites start vomiting up their father-god into 
a communal vessel so that he can stand on bare feet under the 
night sky once more. 
Brujah
Good animals, the Brujah. Good animals. Not herd, by 
any means; not wolves or cats. Dogs. Angry dogs, but smart 
dogs. They can watch you take out your keys, and they know 
you’ll be opening the door. They can watch you unlock the 
door and work the handle, and they know what you’re doing. 
But they never think to work the handle themselves. And they 
probably don’t have the thumbs to do it, either. 
We could probably give them thumbs, but we’d likely get 
in trouble with the other animals for that. 
This is scaring the piss out of me. Why is this stuff 
coming to me? 
Caitiff
I think I shall start a collection, and I think I shall collect Caitiff. 
They are raw, unformed; they are untainted by the Traditions, 
the fetters of blood. They have no prejudice, no confidence. They 
acknowledge their own ignorance. They are in need. 
Followers of Set
Encounter one Setite, and what you might see is a vampire 
with a poignantly acute eye for opportunity. Encounter two, and 
you see a partnership in vice. But look at all of them, the whole 
bloodline, and what do you see?
Us.
Faith, madness, the same. For a very good reason, a terrify-
ingly simple reason. Remember: Upon your death and rebirth, 
while you were drifting in the void, Malkav’s blood called out 
to you. You looked to see where the voice came from. To use 
a simple metaphor, where other vampires were still scrunching 
their eyes shut, refusing to look at what lay between worlds, you 
looked to the left, and you saw.
Now you see, when a Setite is brought across the threshold, 
Set’s blood calls to him. The not-quite-dead, not-quite-undead 
childe hears the voice, and looks to the right. 
And he sees. 
Keep that in mind. No bloodline understands us and our 
insights better than the Followers of Set, and no clan excels so 
greatly at keeping the heart of their knowledge a secret, hidden 
under layers of propaganda and slander worn like cloaks. They 
are our great co-conspirators, even if they shall never admit it. 
Further, they are…irritable regarding the subject, so remember 
not to press the point.
Gangrel
What a bunch of preteens. Hanging around in their leather 
jackets, too cool to talk to anybody else. Too cool to care. And 
if you don’t pay enough attention to them, then they just make 
this big show of stomping off and sulking, trying to convince us 
that they don’t need us, that they’re so big and tough and cool 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
49
and mighty that they don’t need anybody. And they keep looking 
back over their shoulders as they go, but only in little glances so 
you don’t see that they’re looking. 
What they want is, they want us to go running after them 
like some jilted cheerleader, plucking at their sleeves with tears 
streaming down our faces, begging them to come back, telling 
them that if they come back and stay with us then we’ll never 
ignore them again, that we’ll always be faithful and true. 
Fuck ’em. 
Giovanni
Children of a dead god. Eaters of the dead, of the dead who 
ate corpses themselves. Feasters on corruption. They have spent 
too much time dead, dead like stones.  
Are corpses afraid? They should be. The people on the 
outside, the people that they let in only when they feel like it, 
are pounding very hard on the glass. I hear them striking at the 
glass. I heard the glass crack. I think they’re coming in.
The Giovanni should be afraid. The glass is cracking. And 
the people on the other side hate them. 
Lasombra
They don’t know. They really don’t. 
I can only guess that they think they’re the ones in control. 
They gesture, the Void moves in that direction, they presume 
that they are giving orders. 
I suppose that the honey guide believes that it orders the ratel 
to destroy the beehive, kill the bees and feast on the honey, all 
purely so that the honey guide has its choice of leftovers. It would 
probably like to think that the ratel is obeying its commands. 
So it is with the Lasombra. Strings run from their hands 
off into the blackness, and they believe that they are the ones 
who do all the pulling. 
Nosferatu
It’s very hard not to like the Nosferatu. For all their creeping 
and skulking, they are so very, earnestly sincere. The younger ones 
treat me with pity that I don’t require; the elders treat me with respect. 
We play a little game together, a little game of conspiracy. It wasn’t 
my idea or theirs to begin the game, but since the others liked to leave 
both of us out to one side, we started our game for something to do. 
It’s particularly charming when they try to creep up behind 
me when they think I’m not looking, as if I’m going to drop 
something absent-mindedly or reveal my ankle as I hop a mud 
puddle or something. They get very offended when I notice them, 
though, so I usually pretend they aren’t even there. 
They really are a little too attached to their fleshly bodies, 
though. It’s vain of them to disfigure themselves as they do. 
Perhaps someday they’ll grow bored with their mortifications 
and then we can chat like adults.
Ravnos
I held Delizbieta’s hand as she died. 
Poor child. Her only crimes were being descended from a 
monster that gnawed itself hollow long ago, and being ignorant. 
When it woke, she was unprepared. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
50
I should have reached her sooner. If she’d been ready, she 
might have survived. But she couldn’t endure the pain of her 
clan’s broken minds. She wasn’t accustomed to it.
The cross is broken now. The devil’s tenth head has been 
severed. The demon king has bled out his life, and Golden 
Lanka is toppled and burnt.
Beware. Beware. Delizbieta’s fate is my own. We must 
be ready — we cannot be ready — we must be ready, or we 
will die their deaths for them all over again. 
Toreador
It isn’t such a difficult thing to understand the Toreador’s 
obsession, if you try. Think — they too have the Sight, even 
if their lenses are somewhat fractured. They see beyond the 
realm of human senses; they run their fingers along the weave 
that so many others blindly ignore. Even their fêtes and dances 
and social games — those trace out a greater pattern, the sigil 
of their own identity. They know who they are. 
Their fault lies in their weakness, regrettably; a Toreador would 
rather slice his own flesh than slice a beautiful section of pattern. 
They can see beyond the Lie, but so many prefer the Lie’s beauty to 
the things, ugly or not, that lie beyond the paper walls of perception. 
I loved a Toreador once, most ardently. I loved him because 
he could speak to me, because he understood the compulsions 
that the Sight brings. 
Of all the things that have withered and broken from 
remaining too close to my accursed self, I miss him most of all.
Tremere
The Warlocks are half-awake. They cast out with childlike 
fingers, feeling the texture of things. They touch and they taste and 
they smell the world, looking for the connections. They see that 
the moon changes, and that the tides change, and that women’s 
blood shifts, and they see a pattern. They see the bright new star 
that bleeds in the vaults, and they see the blood falling on concrete, 
and they see a pattern. They believe that all things are connected. 
That is where they draw short. They believe. They do 
not know. Yet. 
Watch the Tremere. They do not see as far as we do, but 
they see things that are so near as to escape notice. Watch them, 
and listen to what they believe they have learned. Eventually, 
they may notice us imitating them — and then they might 
become wise enough to imitate us. 
They are very close. 
Tzimisce
Diseased. Filthy, diseased, crawling things. Plagued with 
the infection of flesh. Disgusting. Dirty. Diseased. Weeping 
sores. Slice them away. Slice their bodies away before they are 
lost in the meat. 
No. Don’t touch the meat. Let them boil in their prisons. 
Don’t touch them, the filthy, crawling creatures. Keep away from 
them. They share their infection. They think they have carved out 
their cancer, but it grows. It grows in them. It waits until Gehenna 
to eat their flesh. To consume the corrupted, stinking meat. 
CAN’T THEY SEE?
Ventrue
They sit on their thrones because their thrones are barbed. 
Hooks and wires spring from the chair and pass into their flesh, 
and not one of them will relinquish his seat. If one were to do so, 
then the barbs would pull away his skin, and he would be left 
naked — and they do not so much fear having others see their 
nakedness as they fear beholding their own selves unmasked. 
Even when a throne is vacated, its hooks and jags and barbs 
glistening with bits of the last king, the Ventrue will vie for the 
empty chair. “We are the finest,” they say. “We can govern 
you. We can protect you from the Sabbat, from the Lupines. 
We can make things safe for all of you.”
I don’t know how they can protect me if they can’t protect 
themselves from the chair. 
Lupines
What was that last bit? Lupines… Does that mean 
some kind of werew…the…oh Jesus, it…I…hrrk— AAH! 
Hnnngggh… 
…they are the Lilin, the monsters begat of an angry mother 
and the demons of the field! They are our scourge…
…my arms! My arms! Please, spare me! Please…
…fools, all of them… should have known that if you build 
a wall, something on the other side will want it to come down…
…AA-ANG! SYKORA! From the West he rises, from 
the corpse-seas, the Waksha-water… girt in black, robed in 
violet! AA-ANG! Master of the profane! SYKORA!… 
…you can hear them crawling under the ground; you can 
hear them scratching at the door; you can hear them creeping 
across the roof. they are all around us. they want to kill us. oh 
god why am i out here where they can find me?…
…Daisy? Henry? Don’t leave me. Don’t leave. Please 
— DON’T LEAVE! DON’T GO—
…hhhh...hkkh. Guh. D—Dammit. God. If these are the 
scars they leave on the weavery, what must actually meeting 
one of those monsters be like?
Mages
Never listen to an idiot’s ranting. It’ll only make you angry. 
Stupid, stupid cow, bull, steer, whatever. No different from the 
rest of the herd. So damned convinced that reality is something 
that you can touch and hold and fold and spin like clay. Idiot!
Backwards. He had it all backwards. So ready to accept 
that reality is what everyone tells you it is — worse, worse 
than that! Moron! 
Reality is immutable. There is no change in reality, there 
is only a change in your perception. Move your hand in front 
of the mirror all you want — you’re not moving the mirror. 
You’re not even moving a real hand, other than your own. 
You’re just swallowing the mirror’s little speech. 
Break the mirror. Break the mirror, idiot. You’ll never get 
anywhere if you think that moving the reflection around is going 
to change anything. You can’t change the reflection. 
Look beyond the mirror. Look at what the world is. 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
51
Ghosts
Have the dead begun to rise from the cracks in the earth yet? 
I cannot see for myself, but I feel certain that the dead 
must be walking by now. I had…visions, once, long ago. Can 
you tell me if they have torn themselves from the grave yet? 
I knew a dead woman once. She was so sad and so faint, 
I thought that surely if I were to tremble while she touched me, 
her fingers would snap off and drift away. She was hunted, 
and I could smell her pursuers on her — I could smell their 
obsession. The dead are obsessed, you know. They’ve forgot-
ten everything they knew, forgotten their sense of perspective 
— only the obsession matters. 
I knew a dead woman. She didn’t tell me anything about 
the fires burning in the underworld, even when I asked about 
them, when I told her that I saw them burning. 
That was so long ago. 
Now even my memory deceives me. I cannot hear her 
voice — what I hear is howling, a howling so loud it deafens 
me, drives me into hiding. The voices are so loud; she must 
have been torn to pieces, evaporated, erased by their force. 
Surely the howling has broken the earth by now; surely the 
dead are walking once more.
Are you certain you cannot tell me? I want to know… 
Faeries
Gone. And we cannot, could never follow. 
Hunters
God damn it, what is this world coming to? LeRoi’s 
dead, and the guy who did it was just this freaky little office 
worker with a can of kerosene and a match! He just stood 
there by the body while it was burning; he should have split 
a long time before I got there. It didn’t make sense. What 
was he thinking?
Uhn… was I trying to forget? Something… something 
was hanging over his shoulder. What the hell was that? Are 
there creatures out of the invisible side of things now com-
ing across, out into the three-dimensional side of things? 
Was I just hallucinating?
Dammit, it’s been one fucking hell of a night if I think 
that seeing things that aren’t really there would be the 
lesser of two evils. 
And…wait…LeRoi died a month ago…
The Human Element
Lost five hours tonight. There’s a suitcase full of money 
in my trunk. I swear, I really need to talk to someone who 
isn’t in the family, but who could I find to understand? 
I…we…the family, we’re not always so good with 
humans. We can’t even really talk like equals to the others, 
the outsiders, the… (don’t say “uninfected,” don’t say it, 


Clanbook: Malkavian
52
don’t) …the other clans. The other families. They treat us 
like pariahs, and then they play ignorant to the things going 
on right in front of them just to try to make us think that 
we’re hallucinating. 
So humans? Harder and harder. 
I mean, I had a family. A real family by birth, not by this 
liquid fostering. I know I had a family. I lost their pictures a 
long time ago, and there’s these strange people in the house 
we used to live in, and I’ve changed my name so many times 
that I can’t remember where I left my original papers, but 
that doesn’t mean they didn’t exist. 
And I still have…well, friends might not be the right 
word, but plenty of acquaintances. Have to maintain some 
distance. They can sort of smell that there’s something about 
me, I can tell; it’s that way they look at me while they’re kind 
of freezing in place, like a rabbit who figures if he doesn’t 
move, the snake can’t see him. But that’s kind of a vampire 
thing, I guess, although I don’t know how folks like Carmelita 
manage to avoid that predator/prey reaction. Must be some 
kind of Toreador family secret; whatever it is, she’s good, 
because I’ve never sensed her work to overcome that “here 
I am, I’ll goddamn kill you” kind of projection that the rest 
of us seem to give off. Not even a little bit.
But yeah, I’ve got acquaintances. I still talk to people, 
even if they get a little unnecessarily attentive around me. And 
it’s not just me. Look at Reeve; she’s in so many social circles 
outsiders tend to think she’s a Toreador at first glance. Pack 
keeps a girlfriend or five; not like he’s a Mormon or anything, 
he just makes sure he’s always got someone to fall back on, 
because it’s hard keeping people close to you without destroy-
ing their lives. It’s hard when you’re not even alive yourself. 
Well, there’s…options, of course. I don’t keep a ghoul, 
and I’ve never had one. Rosegarden keeps, what, nine of 
them? She likes to be nurtured. Or so she says, even though 
she doesn’t need a damn bit of nurturing, the psychotic— No. 
Not psychotic. Don’t obsess. 
Ghouls. Right. You wouldn’t think that people would want 
to stay near us, but they do. And it’s not always a matter of the 
blood doing the binding. Sometimes it’s the whipped-dog syn-
drome; all that built-up shame and guilt they’ve got, and they 
somehow sense that we’re going to make their lives difficult, 
and they welcome it. Pack’s women are like that — well, that 
or they’re attracted to his aura. He does tend to project “danger-
ous bastard.” So do Reeve, Pearl, Fitzgerald (fucking Fitzgerald, 
setting me on this fucking chase, making me fucking dig up all 
this fucking rot in the family) — they’re all dangerous. You don’t 
need the Sight to sense the sharp edges all around their personal 
space, and some people go for that. Some people want to get 
cut. Pearl’s right. People can be such fucking cattle at times. 
No, shut up. Where were you? Ghouls. I don’t want one; 
I’m mobile. A new city every month or so, at least as long as 
I’m on this chase. But then again, I’m kind of the exception 
in a lot of ways. I…kind of have these flashes, like I’m remem-
bering these guys who used to…but that’s part of the dreams, 
and I think I might be getting them through the…the links. 
But ghouls are…kind of popular among the rest of us. 
We’re a family that likes to adopt. Sometimes the servant you 
take really does wind up inheriting the mansion; sometimes 
the help’s like part of the family. Of course, Drew speaks for 
the other side — I pity the poor bastards who have to go 
limping back to him. You’d think the ones that survive would 
learn something, but they never do. They never do, really. 
Where the 
Malkavians Are
Dear God. I shouldn’t have looked at the calendar. 
I’m missing days, weeks out of my life. (Life?) Maybe it’s all 
the traveling. We’re not supposed to move from city to city 
much. Don’t do that. Lupines. Traditions. Maybe this is what 
jetlag does to vampires. Maybe you just oversleep a lot if you 
travel like I’ve been doing. And maybe you don’t get hungry 
if you…no, that’s not it!
Where have I been all this time? 
Okay. One at a time. United States. Lots of cities there. 
Lots of Malkavians there, too. So damn many people, all com-
ing to the States and trying to hold on to their cultures, reject 
their cultures, maintain family traditions, break with family 
traditions — it’s a mess. Cities blown up out of control; people 
trading their sense of identity for whatever the TV’s selling. 
A hive. Buzzing with kine, and with us. From what the others 
say, the elders tend to collect in New England — I don’t know 
what’s up there that they find so important. The Gnawed, 
maybe that’s where they’re shipped. The American Gnawed, 
I mean. There are princes among the family here. It’s a good 
place for a cousin to be a prince, because the cities grow up 
and then start withering at the core, and some of them die off 
so fast. There’s archbishops in the family here, too; I’ve heard 
the Call pulse out of Miami from hundreds of miles away, so 
Contreraz must have something going on in her favor. Yeah, 
the States are a good place to be if you’re in the family. It’s easy 
to fit in over here, no matter how messed-up your relatives are. 
Europe. I’ve been to Europe. Grand gatherings — more 
often in Europe than anywhere else, but they move. The 
grounds of St. Mary’s or Bicetre; Vienna, in the shadow of the 
Lunatic’s Tower; Marseilles, at the tumbled gate to the Library 
of Valentinus; old Charenton; even Thorns. A lot of places in 
Europe that are almost holy to the European cousins, or even 
to the rest of us. The others are superstitious and don’t allow 
family members into positions of too much power over there, 
but there’s still a few cities with a cousin in charge, like in 
Ravenna. Europe’s…good to us. The strands — widely spaced, 
but strong as steel. The others keep their distance, but stretch a 
protective hand over us. They don’t want us to turn on them. 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
53
Africa…no. I’ve heard that sometimes the Call comes 
up from there, but it’s faint — there probably are only a few 
of us there to amplify it. I’m…I’m kind of afraid of going to 
Africa, but I don’t have any idea why.  
No, not Africa. I’d sooner go to Mexico, and that’s a pit. 
The cousins down there — there’s nothing keeping them 
in check. They run wild, wilder than you’d expect from a 
Sabbat city. The things I heard behind Pearl’s speech…they 
kind of bubble up when I think of Mexico. And I get the 
feeling that there’s something older there, too, something old 
and hateful. Maybe there’s more grooves in the land; maybe 
that’s one of the places that’s gone strange from the power. 
Further on south, to South America? Um. Not quite 
family territory down there. Sometimes there are echoes of 
old blood spilled, and fire — but they’re so old and faded. 
The Call doesn’t come up much from South America; rumor 
from both Camarilla and Sabbat sides claims that a couple 
of the grandparents have decided to set themselves up down 
there. Not lots of room for newcomers to make their mark. 
India. That’s where they’re fighting over territory, all the 
cities that went missing their princes in the Week of Night-
mares. I know I haven’t been there. The Call went out — I 
didn’t hear it from here, but I know people in Europe who 
did. It must be a nightmare if Malkavians are flocking there 
from hundreds of miles away. I think Vasantasena’s going 
back there, too — although I don’t know why I think that. 
I don’t even know who she is. I remember her face, but…
Asia. No. Stay out of Asia. That reality doesn’t belong 
to us. It’s being shaped, folded, eaten…
Australia…lots of ghosts there. Lots of blood spilled. 
Strange craziness brews up in the cities down there, and it 
spills out from the Outback, I think. When I…was it me? 
Someone else? When I went there, I couldn’t sleep peace-
fully for so much as an hour. The dreams, countless dreams, 
always beating in my skull — no such thing as a peaceful day’s 
slumber in Australia. Ghosts and dreams, and bloodstains 
that creep around the corners of the buildings down there. 
Other vampires can survive well enough down there, but 
those of us with the Sight, those of us in the family — it’s 
harder. I’ve even heard something like the Call when I 
was down there, but it wasn’t right. It was like something 
was mimicking the Call, trying to bring me over to it, but 
it wasn’t one of the family. I’m sure of it. Something very 
real lives in the dreams down there. I wonder what would 
happen if it got into a waking dream, like those that…
God. Oh, God. I can’t have been to all of these places. I 
can’t have all of these memories. Something is going on here. 
Were they feeding me these memories? Is it Pack’s fault? 
Fitzgerald? Rosegarden? 
Where is this coming from? 
	
*	
	
*	
	
*
Oh God. It’s an hour until dawn, and the last time I 
remember being awake was 10 days ago. I just woke up. 
I don’t know where I am — I don’t recognize any of this 
furniture, I don’t recognize this room. I don’t know who 
this woman on the floor is. 
I have to go and hide. The sun will be up soon. 
But I’m afraid. If I go to sleep, I might never wake up 
again. I don’t want to go back into the dark forever. 
Please, whoever you are. Please stop doing this to me. 
Please, just let me be awake and see my friends and drink 
when I’m thirsty and do what I need to do. Just to get by, 
that’s all I ask. I don’t deserve this. I’m so young. 
Please. Don’t put me away again. 
Please. 
The Anatomy of 
Madness
The Malkavians are a very misunderstood clan, and 
that’s partly because people tend to believe that if you’ve 
seen one Lunatic, you’ve seen them all. That’s completely 
untrue, of course — the murderous psychopath isn’t rep-
resentative of the obsessive scientist, and he doesn’t reflect 
the half-dreaming artist, and she’s like the fervently religious 
ancient only by virtue of blood. 
This is what makes the Malkavians so difficult to define 
— and difficult to roleplay, too. It’s a difficult balancing act 
between portraying someone who is believably, convinc-
ingly unstable and roleplaying a madness so debilitating 
or aggravating that people wonder why the Lunatic hasn’t 
been done in yet. Obviously, only functional Malkavians 
make it past the fostering; but at the same time, they’re all 
bent somehow. And given that this is a storytelling game, 
a Malkavian character’s derangement needs to be not only 
believable, but evocative. Nobody cares about the Malkavian 
who believes that the earth is flat — that has nothing to do 
with the themes of Vampire. So with all this in mind, how 
do you roleplay an insane vampire in a way that’s satisfying 
to you, your fellow players and your Storyteller? 
The Real Thing
There is no single cause for mental disorder. Many dis-
orders are biologically based, whether it’s due to biochemical 
imbalance, actual abnormalities of the brain, aging, injury, 
drug abuse or disease. Heredity can play a part in this; so 
can simple bad luck. Obviously, disorders of this nature are 
almost impossible to treat on a purely psychological level; 
medicines and other physiological treatments are often 
necessary to achieve any real progress. 
On the other hand, many disorders have their root in 
outside influences. Some are almost exclusively triggered by 


Clanbook: Malkavian
54
environmental cues — typically traumatic influences such 
as abuse. In fact, scientists used to believe that almost all 
mental disorders came from environmental influences, and 
it’s only recently that hereditary and organic causes became 
more commonly recognized. 
Mental disorders technically include everything from 
small, relatively minor anxiety-related disorders, through 
more severe ailments such as autism and ADD, to wholly 
incapacitating disorders such as catatonia. There are frankly 
far too many variants to list here, but it is worthwhile to 
bear in mind the true scope of psychopathology. 
Roleplaying a Lunatic
Of course, when you’re roleplaying a character, particu-
larly a vampire, realism has to take a back seat to drama and 
story. Choosing and roleplaying a derangement shouldn’t be 
a choice that depends on “what is most likely” — it should 
depend on what’s most appropriate. 
First off, there are plenty of mental disorders that are just 
plain unplayable; delirium, dementia, catatonia and the like 
don’t allow much room for a functional character. (What’s 
more, from a story perspective, the sire would be likely to 
deem such a creation a failure and start over — after disposing 
of the botched material, of course.) Psychosexual disorders 
can be inappropriate, both because it’s all too easy for such 
a derangement to be too disturbing to fellow players, and 
because Malkavians, like most vampires, don’t have much 
desire for sex as we know it. (Of course, some troupes might 
be perfectly fine with such derangements in play — if so, more 
power to you.) Finally, some disorders just aren’t sufficiently 
gripping. A phobia of the number 13 or of trees is techni-
cally fine, but it just doesn’t really go well with a horror story. 
Naturally, few Malkavians think of themselves as “mad,” 
just as few elders of any clan — no matter how cruel — think 
of themselves as “evil.” Many clan members do recognize 
they are somehow far removed from what all of humanity, 
and most of Kindred society besides, considers “normal.” 
However, they ascribe this to possessing a certain…under-
standing about the world and all it holds, not to a disease 
or infirmity. Some accept that their understanding is going 
to be branded as madness by outsiders, but they also tend 
to view themselves as the only ones thinking and seeing 
clearly; it’s the rest of the world that’s living a lie. 
(Ironically, some Malkavians recognize that there is a 
certain amount of insanity inherent to the line, particularly 
where the Methuselahs are concerned. A few clan legends 
hold — somewhat accurately — that Malkav’s power and 
insight were so great that when he took childer, their minds 
shattered from the experience. It’s only the continued dilu-
tion of Malkav’s blood and the visions that come with it that 
allows the youngest generations to be Embraced while “still 
retaining their sanity” — or so the rationalization runs.)
It’s important to understand that a Malkavian’s reality is 
contextual: This is the heart of their insanity. You can’t codify a 
schizophrenic’s delusion as a matter of faith or belief; he doesn’t 
believe that he absolutely must pull the eyes from his victims 
to prevent them from controlling him, he knows that to be a 
fact. Within the context of a Malkavian’s derangements, reality 
works differently. Reality is different for them, because they see 
it through a fractured lens. As a result, it’s good to avoid words 
like “belief,” both in character and out of it. Try to avoid saying 
things like “My Malkavian believes that the world is the rot-
ting corpse of God,” even out of character — instead, phrase 
it in terms like “My Malkavian sees the rot of the world, and 
he knows that the whole planet is God’s corpse.” Even a little 
change in wording like this will do wonders for conveying your 
character’s utter conviction to your fellow players. 
Of course, it might also help things not to discuss your 
derangement with other players unless absolutely necessary. Let 
them piece it out over the course of play. There is one thing 
to bear in mind about this approach, though — if you don’t 
tell your fellow players what your character’s madness is, it’s 
doubly important that you talk it over with your Storyteller, to 
make sure that you aren’t going to be causing undue conflicts 
between players. Conflict between characters is fine — but you 
don’t want to drag in a derangement that makes other players 
uncomfortable, because that kills the spirit of the game. 
Another thing to keep in mind is the time frame of 
a Malkavian’s former life. Vampires who predate Freud 
and Jung might behave in patterns appropriate to modern 
psychology — but they’re as likely to manifest signs of “pos-
session.” Truly young neonates, brought up by dysfunctional 
parents and Embraced in the high-speed, technoshock world 
of the 21st century, might be even crazier than their elders. 
Hannibal Lecter would be out of place in a Poe story; it’s 
similarly disorienting to have characters running around 
whose derangements are at odds with the flavor of their times. 
Pop culture references are also mood-wreckers. It’s theoreti-
cally possible that a schizophrenic Malkavian might believe 
he’s a character in a bad detective novel, or that he’s a Jedi 
Knight — but if you drag one of these guys into the game, not 
only is nobody going to take your character seriously, but they 
might not even take you seriously. I mean, come on…a Jedi?
Finally, it can’t be stressed enough that a little bit of 
research and inspirational reading goes a long way. By this 
we don’t mean watching The Matrix and deciding that your 
character’s going to emulate Lawrence Fishburne, complete 
with a schizophrenic delusion about all of humanity being 
living batteries for robots or some fool thing like that. Read 
an introductory-level psych textbook, or Catch-22. Go to 
a surrealist art show, or browse through an art history book 
— a lot of artists were at least slightly cracked. Read some 
philosophy; many philosophical doctrines (particularly 
Nietzsche and Descartes) make damn good schizophrenic 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
55
derangements with just a little modification and a whole lot 
of belief. Theology offers similar inspiration. 
Anyone can portray someone who believes something 
unusual. The trick is making the personality match the de-
rangement so that your fellow players honestly, truly believe 
that a person like your Malkavian could exist. 
Derangements
One of the most trying parts of playing a Malkavian 
is selecting a proper derangement, one that’s both easily 
enough roleplayed to be more fun than chore and realistic 
enough to make your character seem genuinely, convincingly 
mad. A textbook on psychology can be of some help, but as 
mentioned before, many of the illnesses therein are far from 
appropriate for undead creatures. 
Please note that the following notes are by no means 
comprehensive: they’re just a few generalizations meant to 
flesh out the derangements given in the Vampire rulebook 
to provide fodder for more “realistic” Malkavians. 
Schizophrenia does indeed imply a sort of “split” in 
the victim’s personality, but not multiple personalities. The 
most common disassociation is between feelings and ideas; 
in other words, a schizophrenic might talk about a tragedy in 
a light-hearted manner, or feel uncontrollably morose when 
discussing a pleasant memory. Lots of people say “schizophre-
nia” when they mean “multiple personality disorder,” but 
that doesn’t make them right. 
Multiple personality disorder is typically more common 
in females than in males, and it’s been theorized that many 
cases arise from abuse. The personalities need not have 
separate identities to the point of different names and gen-
ders (although that’s still a possibility); a vampire with this 
derangement could have three personalities that all answer 
to the same name, but are remarkably different. One of the 
personalities might be “stronger” than the others, the one 
that comes to the fore in order to deal with stressful situations 
that the other personalities “can’t handle”; such a personality 
might be much more angry and resentful of its role. The shift 
between personalities is often abrupt, and usually triggered 
by a stressful situation or environmental cue. 
Obsessive-compulsive disorder isn’t just about compulsive 
behavior, although that’s part of it. The “obsessive” side comes 
in with patients who manifest recurrent obsessive thoughts, 
strong enough to interfere with their daily lives. Obsessive 
thoughts often relate to violence or contamination, and they 
tend to intrude on the victim’s thought patterns; they’re not 
a pleasant experience. Compulsions, on the other hand, are 
repetitive and rather more intentional. In many cases, a sufferer 
will indulge in a compulsion (counting, cleaning and organizing 
are particularly common) in response to an obsessive thought. 
And yes, obsessive-compulsives become very tense and agitated 
when prevented from indulging their manias; in humans, this 
can lead to depression, but in vampires, the tension leads to a 
state of frenzy. Obsessive-compulsive disorder is usually chronic, 
and it can indeed take over a person’s life. 
The formal term for manic-depression is bipolar disorder 
(formerly manic-depressive psychosis). A person with this 
disorder can be predominantly manic or generally depressive; 
not all sufferers receive “equal time” for their mood swings. A 
manic-depressive’s speech and movements sometimes speed 
up or slow down according to her current mental state; in 
either case, it’s possible that further hallucinations can strike. 
Ultimately, though, remember that Malkavians have 
little to no chance of fighting off their ailments, even tem-
porarily. Most of them don’t even have any idea that they’re 
unwell — well, they might realize it in the abstract sense, and 
even philosophize about it, but they never really believe that 
they’re deluded. Spending Willpower to resist the effects of a 
derangement should be a rare thing for Malkavians, as rare as 
an ordinary person’s decision to resist cashing that paycheck, 
or to resist eating dinner when they’re hungry and not on a 
diet. They just don’t see a need. 
New Derangements
Desensitization
The vampire with this affliction is a virtual emotional 
amputee. As a derangement, desensitization inhibits the 
vampire’s ability to feel any sort of strong emotion what-
soever, whether joy, sadness, anger or love. The afflicted 
just can’t make the appropriate neural connections (well, 
for want of a better term). 
The power of Dominate or the blood bond can still 
hold a vampire so afflicted in check, but even though such 
supernatural compulsion governs the vampire’s actions, it 
has less of an effect on her psyche. Even when blood bound, 
the vampire goes through the motions of love and devotion 
like a distracted actor half-heartedly playing a part. She will 
still throw herself in front of a car to save her “loved one,” 
but she will do so without so much as a word, a tear or a 
smile. When she frenzies, she does so in a chillingly silent 
paroxysm of violence; when struck with the Rötschreck, she 
scuttles away like a cockroach instinctively fleeing the light. 
Vampires with this derangement find it difficult to 
truly believe in their own ideals, and so make all Human-
ity, Path, Conscience or Conviction rolls at +2 difficulty. 
They also suffer a one-die penalty to any Social dice pools 
that require some show of emotion or warmth, and cannot 
purchase the Performance Ability at all. 
Disassociative Blood-Spending
One of the less obvious derangments, this affliction inhibits 
a vampire’s conscious control over his own vitae. Vampires with 
this derangement have a tendency to unconsciously spend blood 


Clanbook: Malkavian
56
points to raise their Attributes at unusual and inappropriate 
times — increasing their strength in the middle of a round of 
drinks, upping their reaction speed while trying to compose a 
letter, and so on. These vampires have even been known to 
spend blood points during the day while they sleep, waking up 
even hungrier than usual and never knowing why. 
If a character has this derangement, once per session the 
Storyteller can rule that the vampire has just spent a blood 
point to raise a given Attribute, or that the vampire wakes up 
an extra blood point low. The Storyteller is even within her 
rights to tell the player that his character’s missing a blood 
point, without elaborating exactly when and where he spent 
the blood, or what for. After all, the vampire wouldn’t know 
where it went. Players are also welcome to roleplay this derange-
ment, of course (and it can be fun to start randomly spending 
blood in the middle of a tense scene, just to worry the other 
players), but the Storyteller has final control over making this 
derangement a drawback rather than a simple quirk. 
Masochism
A person with this derangement closely associates pain 
with pleasure. In vampires, who no longer enjoy sex in its 
own right, masochism tends to be linked to the pleasure 
received by drinking blood or receiving the Kiss. Masochism 
is usually linked to deep feelings of shame, and masochistic 
vampires have a tendency to be repulsed by the actual pro-
cess of feeding from mortals. They are only fulfilled when 
they’re suffering, presumably as some sort of penance for 
the pleasure they feel when feeding. 
Vampires with this derangement begin to have difficulty 
operating when they become wounded. Once a masochistic 
vampire drops below the Bruised health level, he must make 
a Willpower roll, difficulty 6; failure indicates that he takes 
no action next turn, instead delighting in the sensation of 
pain. Furthermore, the masochist must make a Self-Control 
roll, difficulty 8, in order to use blood points to heal himself, 
no matter how terrible his injuries. 
Memory Lapses
This derangement isn’t like amnesia in the classic sense. 
It’s not that a portion of the vampire’s memories has been 
permanently blocked off — it’s that the vampire tends to lose 
random portions of her memory at inopportune times. The 
memories fade in and out, and can return as quickly as within 
a few minutes, or they might not come back for decades. 
At least once per scene, the vampire suffering from 
memory lapses will forget something relevant for a time. 
This might be as simple as forgetting where she left her keys 
(which can be a real problem when you’re locked out of your 
haven and the eastern sky’s getting brighter), or as complicated 
as forgetting an entire Ability — and even the knowledge 
that she once had that skill. (“Why are you looking at me 
like that? I’ve never touched a keyboard before in my life.”) 
Since this derangement requires particular attention 
from the Storyteller, players should double-check that it’s 
okay to take this for a character. Yes, the player can ad-lib 
minor memory lapses as they come along, but sooner or later 
the lapse has to get more serious. It can be hard to determine 
just when forgetting how to use a gun will be dramatically 
appropriate, and when it’ll make the other players organize 
an impromptu lynch mob. Storyteller discretion is particu-
larly advised. 
Power-Object Fixation
The vampire afflicted with this derangement has invested 
much of her self-confidence in an external object, to the point 
where she believes she cannot function properly without its 
presence. Such a derangement is often linked to some past 
trauma in which the object in question played a major role 
— although not always in the obvious way. For instance, a 
victim might fixate on his dead fiancée’s engagement ring 
if holding his fiancée’s hand was his only source of comfort 
during hard years, but another individual might focus on 
the belt her father beat her with as her source of strength. 
Victims of this fixation lose two dice from all their dice 
pools if somehow separated from their object of focus. It is 
hard to hide this fixation from careful observers; in times 
of stress, the vampire must make a Willpower roll to avoid 
cradling the object to her torso, rubbing it obsessively or 
otherwise physically comforting herself with its presence. 
This derangement sometimes spawns other related de-
rangements over time. The fixated person may, for instance, 
develop multiple personalities related to the object — the 
aforementioned abuse victim might develop a bullying 
personality much like her abusive father’s, and so on. 
Regression
When confronted with stressful situations, a character 
with this derangement has a tendency to mentally revert back 
to a childlike state. Regressives are notable for poor senses of 
cause and effect, flawed interpretations of morality, and a gen-
eral tendency to avoid confrontation. They do not, however, 
usually believe themselves to be actual children who’ve lost 
their parents — more typically, regressive vampires continue 
to think of themselves as the same people they always are. 
Of course, they’re notably much more self-centered, fearful 
of the unknown, and reliant on strong “parent” figures, but 
this is a nuance that the vampire in question tends to miss. 
Vampires with this derangement are at a permanent 
+2 difficulty on all Self-Control and Instinct rolls; children 
have very little sense of discipline for the sake of discipline, 
and aren’t sufficiently self-aware to master their own Beasts. 
The regressive is no different.  
[Storytellers beware: This derangement, improperly used, 
leads to Malkavians who are cute rather than creepy; you 
know the type. The ones with teddy bears and bunny slippers. 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
57
When properly used, a regressive should be terrifying — a 
supernaturally powerful creature with no real sense of right 
or wrong — so feel free to crack down on players who tend to 
play this derangement more for laughs than for horror value.]
Self-Annihilation Impulse
This derangement is more common among older vampires, 
although there’s nothing stopping a neonate from acquiring the 
affliction. The afflicted vampire feels a deep sense of revulsion 
for his flesh, and is literally terrified of the thought of “living” 
forever, or of continuing to exist inside a cold, dead shell. This 
revulsion is entirely unconscious, however; on a conscious level, 
the vampire is wholly unaware of his “death wish,” although 
he may demonstrate a morbid streak. 
Whenever the character is confronted with more-or-less 
direct evidence of his immortality — such as visiting the 
churchyard where his mortal daughter is buried, or watching 
a ghoul die — he must make an immediate Willpower roll, or 
begin to undertake some sort of potentially deadly behavior. 
This behavior might be as direct as storming into Elysium and 
giving the prince a piece of his mind, or it might be more subtle, 
such as breaching the Masquerade by talking to a reporter. 
In any event, the pursuit of self-destruction is not a con-
scious decision, and it’s not open for debate. The character 
will doggedly go about his “chosen” task until it’s completed, 
resisting any attempts to talk him out of it. He may even con-
sciously believe that the actions he’s undertaking are perfectly 
safe. The compulsive behavior lasts only for a scene or so; 
however, depending on the nature of the threats he’s called 
down on himself, the consequences can last quite a bit longer. 
Synesthesia
This derangement has little to do with logic and more 
with sensory interpretation. The afflicted vampire’s sensory 
input is somewhat “scrambled”; although he’s still capable of 
receiving sensory information, the information each sense 
provides is processed in terms of a different sense. In short, the 
synesthetic “hears” colors, “smells” textures, “tastes” sounds 
and the like, and is hard-pressed to think of such stimuli in 
any other fashion.
Although the synesthetic is presumably accustomed to 
the unusual sensory input, his real problem lies in communi-
cating what he senses to others. A character so afflicted has 
difficulty expressing concepts as simple as “cut the red wire” 
—  he’s much more likely to say “cut the sandpapery wire” or 
something similar — and even has similar difficulties compre-
hending speech from others. Since the associations vary from 
individual to individual, there’s not even any guarantee that 
another synesthetic would be able to understand the vampire. 
Apart from the aforementioned difficulties in daily 
communication, the synesthetic receives +2 difficulty to 
any Expression and Performance rolls that don’t involve 
creating purely surreal art, poetry or the like. The synesthetic 
may spend a Willpower point to correlate her sensory input 


Clanbook: Malkavian
58
disembodied neural net that some call the Madness 
Network (or the Cobweb, the Tapestry, the weavery 
and so on). This doesn’t mean that they’re in constant 
telepathic communication, though, nor that they’re 
continually bombarded by one signal after another. For 
what it’s worth, Malkavians spend a very low percentage 
of their time tapped into the Network. Many hear only 
a faint fluttering two or three times a year. For the vast 
majority of his nights, the only company a Malkavian has 
within his skull is his own dementia. 
The precise nature of the Network is actually in 
question; the Malkavians seem convinced that Malkav’s 
hand is in it somewhere, but that doesn’t mean it’s true. 
The legend of Malkav existing only in psychic form in 
the minds of all his grandchilder is one popular theory; so 
is the thought that he created the network to be able to 
spy through the eyes of any and all his progeny, even in 
his sleep. Only the Fourth Generation of the clan is likely 
to know for sure, and they’re not available for comment. 
The Cobweb isn’t something that comes with Demen-
tation — vampires outside the clan can learn Dementation, 
but they can never hear the Call. A few scholars have 
compared the Network to the blood bond, theorizing 
that it’s a blood-transmitted sympathetic link with much 
stronger (if different) effects; of course, it doesn’t touch 
Malkavian ghouls, making such comparisons of limited use. 
Whatever its true nature, the Madness Network does 
come across as largely unknowable, even to Malkavians. 
As such, it’s a perfect vehicle for the Storyteller to do as 
she likes — it can provide anything from plot hooks to 
deus ex machina revelations. You could fill a book with 
rules governing how the Cobweb works, and even then 
there’d be possibilities left out. Ultimately, the Network is 
fully under the Storyteller’s control — if she even decides 
to use it at all. 
in a “normal” fashion for a turn — or rather, at least to be 
able to communicate “normally” in terms of colors, textures, 
smells, tastes, temperature or sound. The character would 
still hear a ringing noise and think of it as a spicy smell, for 
instance — he’s just able to focus enough to associate that 
spicy smell he hears with what other people call “ringing.”
The Madness 
Network
Unless the Storyteller would rather not open this 
particular can of worms, it’s presumed that all Malkavians 
are hooked up (to varying degree) to the supernatural, 
The Caitiff Questions
“But if a Malkavian’s Embrace automatically car-
ries madness with it, does that mean that there are no 
such thing as Caitiff sired by Malkavians?”
Actually, no. Malkavians are as prone (if not 
moreso) as any other clan to discard a new childe 
just after the Embrace, and leave that childe to find 
its own way in the world. Such childer are usually 
as insane as any Malkavian, but never develop 
their talent for the clan Disciplines, and have no 
connection to the clan. 
“Are all Malkavian-sired Caitiff mad?”
No. Sometimes the blood runs a little thin, 
and a childe comes through the Embrace still sane. 
These childer are always abandoned as Caitiff, as 
their sires instinctively recognize that the newborns 
are somehow…flawed and unsuitable. Therefore, 
a player whose Caitiff had a Malkavian sire can 
choose to take a derangement or not — or, more 
interestingly, she can leave the choice up to the 
Storyteller. 
“Would a Caitiff who inherited his sire’s insanity 
have access to the Madness Network?”
It’s possible. However, Malkavians don’t much 
care for eavesdroppers. By and large, any Caitiff 
demonstrating a connection to the Madness Net-
work is hunted down and killed, almost instinctively. 
If the Storyteller chooses to allow a Lunatic-sired 
Caitiff access to the Cobweb, the Caitiff must have 
a derangement, and cannot purchase any dots in 
Malkavian Time (she’s presumed to have access to 
the Talent, but uses only her Wits in the appropriate 
dice pool). A vampire with a dot or more of Mal-
kavian Time is by default Malkavian, connected to 
the clan’s Disciplines and communication network 
whether her sire hung around to teach her or not. 
The Particulars of Insight
If the Storyteller would rather not mess around 
with the concept of the Madness Network, an-
other possibility might be to allow Malkavians to 
purchase the Insight Background given in Time 
of Thin Blood (pg. 74). Although designed for 
thin-blooded vampires in particular, it’s hard to 
deny that any oracular ability that works well with 
Auspex and Dementation is just about tailor-made 
for Malkavians.
Some Storytellers might even allow Malkavians 
access to the Network and Insight both, but this is 
very much up to the individual’s discretion. 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
59
New Talent
Malkavian Time
Gentry tried to struggle, but the splintered wood in his 
heart held him down like a drug. His eyes were stone inside their 
sockets as he rolled them toward the creature that squatted like 
some roosting bat beside his head. “How…?” he finally choked. 
The frail vampire’s response was a slight shrug. His tone 
was flat and cold. “Lita told me you were out here, and you’d 
probably be getting rid of her here.” 
Gentry darted a fervent glance at the drain, where a few 
of Lita’s wet ashes still clung to the lip. “But…”
The fingers that closed around his face were quite cold.
This Malkavian-specific Trait represents a Lunatic’s 
particular connection to her clan’s shared subconsciousness; 
needless to say, it’s quite supernatural by nature. It allows the 
Malkavian to “plug into” the floodwaters of the Madness 
Network and filter out messages, impulses, shared visions 
and knowledge of upcoming clan gatherings. 
The Storyteller is usually the one making any Malkavian 
Time rolls, at least with regards to clan gatherings. The Sto-
ryteller rolls the character’s Wits + Malkavian Time in secret, 
usually about a week before a significant gathering. With one 
success, the Malkavian receives an impulse to immediately head 
to  a specific locale — but only when the meeting’s just starting. 
Three successes allow the Lunatic to have about a night or two’s 
forewarning, and a general idea of the meeting’s purpose. Five 
successes give the Malkavian warning a week early, and a very 
clear vision of the meeting’s focus. Six or more successes can 
actually be detrimental — at that point, it’s entirely likely that 
the poor mad vampire has dipped too deeply, and is starting 
to receive pulses of his elders’ derangements.…
It’s theoretically possible to actually, consciously send 
messages along the Network, but that doesn’t mean that the 
Network is any sort of replacement (or even poor substitute) 
for a cell phone. For the most part, “sent” messages that 
manage to make it farther than a few feet are unconscious 
screams that channel a Malkavian’s extreme emotion or pain. 
For this reason, Malkavians with more than three dots in 
Malkavian Time can often hear a clanmate’s death-scream, 
so long as it’s in the same city. 
Despite the difficulty, it is possible to send deliberate, 
personalized messages from one person to the next along the 
Network, even without Dementation. It’s tough as hell, but 
a Malkavian can always try. To make the attempt, the player 
rolls Wits + Malkavian Time, difficulty 9. Success allows the 
Malkavian to transmit a message to one person within city limits 
(longer ranges are possible, but only at the Storyteller’s discre-
tion); the message can consist of up to two words per success. 
Note that a Malkavian needn’t have any dots at all in 
Malkavian Time to receive those hideous little broadcasts 
along the clan’s frayed neural network. In fact, it often drives 
newly Embraced clan members…well, madder than usual 
when the messages start filtering into their brains without 
any hint as to their origins. 
• 
 
Your “cousins” are usually surprised when 
	
	
you manage to make it to a gathering. 
••  
You’ve become accustomed to the 
	
	
occasional Call. 
••• 
You can sometimes hear echoes of   
	
	
messages that might not be intended 	
	
	
for you. 
•••• 
When one of the family dies, you know.
••••• 
You are the undisputed local authority 
	
	
on what is necessary.  
Possessed by: Malkavians. Just Malkavians.
Specialties: None. 
Disciplines
Elder Malkavians are no different than the elders of any 
other clan when it comes to Disciplines — they just as readily 
seek to expand their senses and powers over themselves and 
their environment. However, the elders of clan Malkavian, 
as intimately connected to madness as they are, are capable 
of producing Discipline effects that would never occur to a 
sane vampire.  
Players have the option of choosing to be one of the few 
Malkavians who weren’t affected by the global “reawaken-
ing” of Dementation, and thus retain Dominate, Auspex 
and Obfuscate as their clan Disciplines. So far, the childer 
of these “offshoots” have been mostly split in their affinities 
for Dominate or Dementation — so there’s ample reason 
to play a Malkavian with Dominate if you feel so inclined. 
Some of the following high-level powers can be purchased 
as Dementation or another Discipline. These are powers 
that have as much to do with the Network as the vampire’s 
personality. When the power of Dementation was sealed off 
from the Camarilla Malkavians centuries ago, they learned 
to “make do,” imitating their elders’ Network-specific abili-
ties with Auspex and Obfuscate. They might not have had 
Dementation, but they always had the Legion-mind. 
The following Disciplines are recommended for Mal-
kavians only; it would somewhat diminish the effect of the 
Madness Network if just any Toreador or Tremere were 
able to dispassionately tap into its immaterial ganglia. Call 
it one of the “perks” of Malkav’s Curse if you will — the 
Malkavians have certainly lost enough in exchange. 
[Note: Mind’s Eye Theatre rules follow for most of the 
Discipline powers available. Some of these powers just don’t 
work as well in a live-action environment, being more suited 
to a more personal environment with immediate access to 
a Storyteller. Please don’t take it personally.]


Clanbook: Malkavian
60
Babble  
(Auspex Level Six  
or Dementation Level Six)
One of the more classic powers among elder Malkavians, 
this is the ability to communicate at great distances by using 
the power of the Network. The Malkavian with this ability 
can link a number of people together, allowing them all to 
converse at will — however, everyone involved must carry 
on their conversation out loud. What’s more, each person 
hears their fellows as if the other people were standing next 
to them; thus, if Rosegarden were in the comfort of her own 
quiet haven while Pack was in a crowded subway, Pack could 
murmur quietly and be heard, while Rosegarden would have 
to raise her voice for Pack to hear her over the crowd. 
System: The Malkavian may communicate with as many 
other people as he has points of Willpower; to link with unwill-
ing targets, the player must roll Charisma + Empathy, difficulty 
of the target’s Willpower. He may add more people (up to his 
Empathy rating) over and above his Willpower score only if 
those people have derangements and don’t resist the Babble. 
MET System: Without cellular phones or walkie-talkies, 
this power’s an outright bitch to simulate in live-action. 
Considering the difficulties of long-range challenges, it’s 
recommended that this power be restricted to Storyteller 
use — for example, a Narrator approaching a player with a 
message transmitted via Babble.
The Call  
(Auspex Level Eight  
or Dementation Level Six)
Although many clan gatherings happen spontaneously, 
the Call arising from a general subconscious need shared by 
a city’s Malkavian population, it is possible to send the Call 
deliberately. Both Auspex and Dementation offer the ability 
to send the Call, although it’s a much easier art to perform 
when expressed through Dementation. 
System: To send the Call, a Malkavian (and only a Mal-
kavian) rolls Perception + Empathy, difficulty 6. As always, 
other clan members will hear (and attend if they so choose) 
only if they make their Malkavian Time rolls.
Successes	 Malkavians reached
	
1	
All within three city blocks
	
3	
All within a three-mile radius
	
5	
All within a 10-mile radius
	
7	
The city’s entire Malkavian population
	
10	
All within the greater metropolitan area
	
13	
All within 300 miles
	
15	
All Malkavians on the continent
	
20	
Every Malkavian in the world
The Call as broadcasted is not a verbal thing; it merely 
conveys an impression of a place and a time. There is no sense of 
purpose, nor even the name of the gathering point; still, neither 
is really necessary. The Call is so instinctive that if an American 
Malkavian who didn’t speak a word of French were visiting Paris, 
and heard the Call, he’d be able to follow his impressions and 
visions to the gathering place as readily as any native Lunatic. 
MET System: In live-action environments, this power has 
an effective “delay”; in other words, a character must announce 
his intentions to send out the Call to your Storyteller, who in 
turn should notify the various Malkavians in play of this Call. 
After all, you may not know all of the Malkavians in the city, 
but they’ll still hear it (via the Storyteller). A good method is 
to alert your Storyteller a few days before a game, who can then 
place a note on all of the Malkavian character records before 
handing them to players for the evening’s session. Success is 
considered automatic, but the character cannot reach farther 
than the city limits — a Call that echoes from city to city is 
best left as a plot device in the Storytellers’ hands.
Sibyl’s Tongue (Auspex Level Six)
Elder Malkavians have a well-deserved reputation as 
seers and prophets. The power of the Sibyl’s Tongue takes 
this predilection one step further: The Malkavian so blessed 
can call on her advanced Auspex to go deliberately questing 
into the Legion-mind for the answer to a particular ques-
tion. If some Malkavian somewhere knows the answer, then 
the sibyl has a chance of making the connection to that 
Malkavian’s memories and drawing forth the information. 
Failure carries a penalty, though. To open oneself to 
the Legion-mind and deliberately tread naked into its wa-
ters — that’s dangerous stuff. Whenever a Malkavian uses 
this talent, she runs the risk of having the clan’s collective 
mad thoughts invade her head in a rush. The process is…
highly unpleasant. 
System: The Malkavian must focus for a turn to attune 
herself to the Network. The player then rolls Wits + Inves-
tigation, difficulty 8. If the roll is successful, the Malkavian 
gets the answer of her choice; the more successes, the less 
cryptic the reply. However, the answer must be something 
that some Malkavian somewhere knows (excluding Malkav 
himself, of course).   
If the roll is failed, then the Malkavian is in trouble. 
The stew of psychoses that makes up the Network invade 
her personal headspace, at such a speed that it’s impossible 
to filter out what she wants. She immediately gains two ad-
ditional derangements for the duration of the scene. If the roll 
is botched, then the effects are even worse — one of these 
additional derangements settles into her mind permanently. 
At the Storyteller’s option, particularly dangerous ques-
tions might inflict an extra derangement even if the roll is 
successful, and have even more severe penalties for failure. 
This is especially true of questions that require tapping the 
mind of a Methuselah — a place nobody, no matter how 
well-prepared, wants to go. 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
61
MET System: To activate this power, the player must 
expend one or more Mental Traits; the more Traits expended, 
the more accurate the reply, subject to the Storyteller’s inter-
pretation. Make a simple test (anyone will do; you don’t have 
to tell the other person what you’re doing). If you win or tie, 
your Malkavian is able to tap into the Cobweb and dig up the 
information that you want. If you lose, though, your Malkavian 
gets lost in the psychoses and gains two more Derangements 
for the next hour or scene — a good system is to just grab two 
at random from a deck of prepared Derangement cards of the 
sort that you’d use for Dementation (see Laws of the Night, 
p. 146). In either case, the Mental Traits are spent and gone.
If a Storyteller is not available to narrate this power, or if 
you just want to speed game play, the Malkavian can use it to 
gain access to special Lore and information that he might not 
otherwise have. Spend two Mental Traits and make the test 
described above. If successful, you gain access to one special level 
of Lore Ability above what you’d normally know. Thus, if you 
use this power with an Expert Ability of, say, Noddist Lore x2, 
you can temporarily go up to Noddist Lore x3 — long enough to 
fetch one snippet of useful information or make one challenge. 
This rules variant is subject to Storyteller approval, of course.
Scrawl (Obfuscate Level Six)
The Malkavian is able to tap into the recesses of his madness 
and encode his irrational thoughts within a written form. His 
writing appears no different than any other graffiti (although 
it may be distinctly irrational, like the scrawl on the walls of a 
madman’s cell); however, other Malkavians are able to look 
at it and filter out the message hidden within. In essence, the 
contagious madness of Malkav’s blood acts as a medium for 
communication. If the writer so chooses, he can leave a message 
that can be read by all Malkavians, or by a specific Malkavian.
System: No roll is necessary to write encrypted messages; 
however, if the Malkavian is leaving a hidden message for 
a specific Malkavian, he must personally know either the 
intended reader, the reader’s sire or one of the reader’s prog-
eny. There is no roll necessary to read the message, either. 
Non-Malkavians with Auspex 6 or higher, if they suspect 
a hidden message or pattern, can attempt to pierce the scrawl’s 
meaning; doing so requires a Perception + Occult roll, dif-
ficulty 9. However, failure inflicts a temporary derangement 
on the reader, as he discovers exactly the wrong pattern in 
the writer’s madness.  
MET System: This power can be tricky to simulate in 
live-action. If you trust to the honesty of the players in your 
game, you can leave a special Scrawl card (a 3x5 will do — a 
special color is a good choice to indicate Scrawl instead of 
a regular item or note) with “Scrawl” on the front and your 
note on the back. A slightly more secure, but intensive, 
method is to leave a “Scrawl” card taped to the surface with 


Clanbook: Malkavian
62
a note to see a Storyteller; that prevents non-Malkavians 
from peeking, but can tie up a lot of time if players have to 
go looking for Storytellers.
If Scrawl causes too much difficulty during play, Sto-
rytellers shouldn’t hesitate to restrict its use to downtime 
sessions between games (for passing hidden messages be-
tween Malkavians), or to not allow it at all.]
Phantom Haunter  
(Obfuscate Level Eight)
This frightening ability taps into the victim’s actual self-
image and grants the power found therein to the Lunatic. The 
Malkavian using Phantom Haunter can reach into his target’s 
mind, draw forth the image of the person who has most shaped 
(or fucked up) the target’s self-image, and then become that 
person in all respects. If the victim was most traumatized by her 
Embrace, the Malkavian might appear as her sire; if she was 
most affected by her overweening mother, then her mother 
suddenly confronts her; if a friendly priest managed to pull her 
back from the brink of self-destruction, the Lunatic might wear 
that priest’s face. The phantom isn’t necessarily accurate; as it’s 
shaped by the victim’s memories, the phantom might even be 
an outright caricature of the real figure from the victim’s past. 
Although the change is largely illusory, it’s more than 
skin-deep. Once the Malkavian has assumed the persona of 
the phantom, he gains whatever knowledge of the victim that 
the victim believes the phantom would have. If the victim 
believes her father suspected her of slipping off to have sex 
with her boyfriend on Sunday mornings, then the Malka-
vian learns of that little habit, and can use that knowledge 
believably. Since the phantom’s knowledge depends on the 
victim’s belief, then the Malkavian can wind up lacking 
information that the actual figure would ordinarily possess, 
but can also gain knowledge that the real-world counterpart 
wouldn’t know. It all depends on what the victim thinks her 
phantom tormentor or benefactor knows. 
Of course, assuming this form and faux memories exacts 
something of a toll on the Malkavian. Spending too much 
time acting (and thinking) like someone’s personal bugbear 
can temporarily imprint the Malkavian with behavior patterns 
not his own. 
System: This power requires a Manipulation + Empathy 
roll, difficulty of the target’s Willpower. Each success allows 
the Malkavian to assume the phantom’s persona for one turn. 
While this power is in effect, the Malkavian can destroy his 
target’s confidence by using the secret knowledge so gained; any 
Dementation, Presence or Dominate attempts against the victim 
are at -3 difficulty, and the victim loses one temporary point of 
Willpower each turn that the “phantom” continues its rebuke. 
However, the Lunatic must make a Willpower roll, difficulty 
6, every turn past the first in order to retain full control. Failing 
a Willpower roll means that the Malkavian is oversaturated in 
the conjured phantom’s persona, and continues to be haunted 
by the phantom’s habits and prejudices for the rest of the night. 
This can be treated as either mild multiple personality disorder 
or mild schizophrenia; in either case, the Malkavian temporarily 
loses some of his own self-image to the phantom’s own personal-
ity. If the Willpower roll is botched, the phantom personality 
remains for a month or longer. In any case, the Malkavian no 
longer has access to the phantom’s appearance or “memories”; 
the vague impressions of personality are all that remain. 
MET System: Phantom Haunter is a particularly difficult 
Discipline in live-action play, because it relies on the good 
roleplaying of the person you’re facing. If your subject doesn’t 
want to cooperate, you won’t be able to get any information 
without the intervention of a Storyteller — which is to be 
avoided. If both parties trust to role-play the effects of this 
Discipline, they are certainly encouraged to do so.
In game terms, use of Phantom Hunter requires that you 
make a successful Social Challenge against the victim. If you 
win, you get a free retest on your next use of Dementation, 
Dominate or Presence against the victim. Once you’ve used 
the retest, you can either let the power and knowledge gained 
fade away, or you can spend a Willpower Trait to keep the 
power active for another retest. (This is expensive in terms of 
Willpower, but more certain than just making a new Social 
Challenge to reactivate the power later.) Note that you can 
still only claim one retest on any single challenge of the above 
Disciplines through the use of this power.
Example: Uruq decides to put a little mental mojo down 
on his long-time enemy Anya. He defeats her in a Social 
Challenge and proceeds to rip into her with Advanced 
Dementation, Total Insanity. He fails his test to activate the 
Total Insanity, but he makes a retest with Phantom Haunter, 
and succeeds. He spends one Willpower Trait to keep the 
power active and under control; he follows up with a nasty 
subconscious Dominate command through Mesmerism. He 
fails that initial test, calls for a retest with Intimidation, fails 
that (bad night), then makes a retest with Phantom Haunter. 
He fails even that one, so he cannot make another Phantom 
Haunter retest on that challenge, and can keep the power 
active only by spending yet another Willpower Trait.
Childmind (Dementation Level Seven)
This dread ability allows the Malkavian to give another 
person the equivalent of a psychic lobotomy. By focusing the 
power of Dementation, the Lunatic can strip away much 
of a target’s power of reasoning, reducing his victim to a 
childlike state. 
System: The Malkavian must make eye contact with 
his victim in order to use this ability. Once eye contact is 
established, the player rolls Intelligence + Empathy, difficulty 
of the victim’s Self-Control or Instinct. 
The player can choose to reduce the victim’s Mental 
Attributes by up to seven points, as long as the victim is left 
with at least one dot in each. The Storyteller is under no 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
63
obligation to reveal the victim’s actual Attributes, however; 
the player must guess which Attributes to reduce and by how 
much. The victim also gains the derangement of Regression 
for as long as the childlike state lasts. 
For example, Hoxha, played by Ben, uses Childmind 
on Lauren-Bess. Hoxha (and by proxy, Ben) knows that she 
has a reputation for being intelligent and cunning, so Ben 
announces that he intends to drop her Intelligence by three, 
her Wits by three and her Perception by one. Lauren-Bess 
normally has Intelligence 5, Perception 3 and Wits 3; she’s 
rather more intelligent and a little less cunning than Hoxha 
guessed. Her Intelligence falls to 2, as does her Perception. Her 
Wits becomes a 1, as the power cannot reduce any Attributes 
to zero. Lauren-Bess still retains some of her acuity and is as 
intelligent as the average person, but her decision-making 
faculties are severely impaired, and she will still regress to 
childlike behavior under the proper stimuli. At least she’s 
still somewhat functional some of the time.…
The number of successes determines the duration of the 
Childmind’s effects. 
1 success	
	
One turn
2 successes	 	
One night
3 successes	 	
One week
4 successes	 	
One month
5 successes	 	
One year
6+ successes		
One year per success past 5 
MET System: Make a Mental Challenge against your 
subject, after establishing eye contact. If you win, you can strip 
away the target’s Mental Traits with your own force of will. 
Each Mental Trait that you expend, up to seven, automatically 
tears away one of the subject’s Mental Traits. Traits lost in this 
fashion reduce the subject’s current and total Mental Traits 
for the rest of the night. The target therefore can’t regain the 
Traits through the use of Willpower or similar methods, and 
his overall mental state is indicated by his new Mental Trait 
total. Thus, a normally brilliant Tremere (with twelve Traits) 
could be reduced to just average brainpower by tearing away 
seven Traits, reducing him to five. If the Tremere had already 
used up multiple Mental Traits previously, he might well find 
himself without any remaining temporary Mental Traits. Even 
if the Tremere spent a Willpower Trait to refresh his Mental 
Traits, he’d only go back up to five Traits, not his usual twelve.
Sleep of Reason  
(Dementation Level Seven)
This macabre power gained its name from a Goya print 
that has achieved remarkable popularity among the clan. 
The Malkavian with this ability can reach into his victim’s 
mind, pull forth whatever hobgoblins he finds there, and 
set them buzzing to the attack. 
System: The player rolls Wits + Intimidation, difficulty 
6. The Malkavian must spend one blood point for each hob-
goblin he creates, up to a maximum number determined by 
the successes on the roll. Thus, if Fitzgerald were to get five 
successes on the Wits + Intimidation roll, he could create 
up to five hobgoblins at one blood point each.  
The hobgoblins can appear as almost anything, but 
they’re usually caricatures of whatever insecurities or bad 
memories the target might possess. Since they are born of the 
victim’s frailties, the victim’s mental resilience determines 
just how powerful the hobgoblins are. 
Each beastie’s statistics are as follows: 
Strength: 10 - victim’s Willpower
Dexterity: 13 - victim’s Willpower
Stamina: 12 - victim’s Willpower
Health levels: 13 - victim’s Self-Control + Courage
The hobgoblins have no Mental or Social Attributes of their 
own, and as creations of the victim’s own psyche, are immune 
to any mental powers the victim uses against them. A victim 
cannot use Obfuscate to hide from his own persecutors, nor can 
he Dominate them into leaving him alone. Other vampires 
can affect the victim’s hobgoblins with these Disciplines, but 
the difficulty to do so is the same as if they were using those 
powers against the victim himself. In any event, the hobgoblins 
will ignore all other beings save their target unless compelled 
otherwise, and cannot damage anyone other than their victim.
A hobgoblin can attack with a bite, punch, claw rake 
or whatever attack is reasonable for its form. All of these 
attacks inflict Strength + 1 lethal damage; however, this 
damage is purely psychic in nature, and will disappear at 
the end of the scene. The malicious little beasties can fly as 
quickly as their victim can run, and can find him wherever 
he runs. If not destroyed by the end of the scene, the hob-
goblins melt back into the ether from which they sprang. 
MET System: Activating the Sleep of Reason requires 
that you spend one Blood Trait and one Mental Trait for 
each hobgoblin that you conjure, to the maximum allowed 
by your blood expenditure limits of Generation. The hob-
goblins harass and perhaps attack your subject, with the 
following statistics:
Physical Traits: 5 + (victim’s total Negative Physical Traits)
Health Levels (all “Healthy”): 13 - victim’s Self-
Control/Instinct +
Courage (halved if the compressed scale is used)
Attack: Strike for two levels of lethal damage
Hobgoblins created with this power affect only the 
intended victim. They melt away within an hour, or after 
their target is destroyed.
Deny (Dementation Level Eight)
This highly disturbing power offers a very compelling 
argument that the Malkavians see more of reality than 
anyone else does. The Malkavian using Deny is able to focus 
away from a certain object so completely that the object 


Clanbook: Malkavian
64
ceases to exist in the Malkavian’s perception. However, 
the power of Dementation is so strong that for all intents 
and purposes, the Malkavian is right. The Malkavain may 
step through a locked door that he “doesn’t see” as if it 
were an archway; a sword that he refuses to acknowledge 
will fail to cut him, passing right through his body. Those 
few elders of other clans who’ve seen this power in ac-
tion cannot find a suitable explanation for how exactly 
it works. Perhaps the astral plane is somehow involved, 
or perhaps elder Lunatics simply function in more than 
three dimensions — who can say? There’s certainly no 
explanation forthcoming from the Malkavians.…
This power cannot be used to “deny” the existence 
of living creatures, undead or spirits; it works only on in-
animate objects. Some fragments of old stories hint that 
the Eater and perhaps even Malkav might have the ability 
to use a similar power against living creatures, but such a 
power is beyond the scope of most elders in existence today. 
System: The player spends a blood point and rolls 
Willpower, difficulty 8. If successful, for the duration of the 
scene, the Malkavian cannot recognize or interact with 
the given object in any way. It’s as if the object just didn’t 
exist for the Lunatic. Of course, this does have one or two 
drawbacks; if a Malkavian has successfully “tuned out” an 
opponent’s weapon, he won’t be able to understand why 
his friends are reacting as if their foe were armed. (They’re 
probably hallucinating, come to think of it.) 
The aura of “noninterference” doesn’t extend further 
than anything the Malkavian is holding; the Malkavian 
can swing a fire ax through a “denied” door to strike the 
opponent on the other side, but if he were to fire through 
the “open archway,” the bullets would hit the door as usual 
(possibly to the Lunatic’s consternation). The Malkavian 
cannot help other vampires or living beings to tune out 
the ignored object, even if touching them; the power only 
benefits the Malkavian and his personal effects.   
MET System: You simply expend one Blood Trait 
and one Willpower Trait to deny the existence of one 
material object for the next hour or scene. If you Deny a 
sword, for instance, it cannot hurt you; a stake would not 
paralyze you; a suit of body armor would not stop your fist. 
You may Deny only one object at a time.
Merits and Flaws
There are, of course, plenty of existing Merits and 
Flaws that are particularly appropriate for Malkavians. 
Most Mental Flaws from the main rulebook work nicely 
for Lunatics, as do Acute Sense, Infamous Sire, Medium, 
Oracular Ability (particularly appropriate), Cursed, Eerie 
Presence and Grip of the Damned. Still, the following 
might also offer an idea or two to add just the right finish-
ing quirk to the Lunatic of your choice. 
Abandoning the Flesh
As the frame story of Chapter One indicates, it is 
indeed possible for a Malkavian to “download” herself, 
her consciousness onto the shared madness network. 
This isn’t quite a form of immortality, though, as what 
remains on the Network possesses a rudimentary sort of 
sentience, as much an echo of the vampire’s personality 
as anything else. There’s no evidence to suggest that 
the network remnants of a Malkavian’s personality have 
any sort of strong ambition or self-awareness, other than 
being a collection of ideas and memories that fire off 
when appropriate stimuli present themselves. Whatever 
“intelligence” remains is incomplete, somewhat broken 
and rather difficult to reason with — after all, it no 
longer has the context of a body and a separate set of 
memories. It is somewhat further outside the bounds 
of reality, bodiless and indistinct.
And, of course, quite mad. 
Diablerie, naturally, can theoretically work nicely 
as a quick ticket into the Network proper. This is really 
only possible when the diablerist is himself a Malkavian, 
although Storytellers might allow a particularly powerful 
elder to flow through a weak-blooded diablerist onto 
the Network, likely inflicting his drinker with the Curse 
of Malkav in all its glory as he passes. Of course, there’s 
still a chance that he is consumed utterly. 
Ultimately, though, there is no system for this 
process; no character should be allowed the last-minute 
chance at escaping Final Death unless the story demands 
it. For that reason, a Malkavian can shunt himself onto 
the Tapestry only when the Storyteller deems it appropri-
ate — and the Storyteller is triply advised to be very, 
very, very conservative with this sort of thing, treating 
it with all the respect and caution due, say, Golconda. 
Finally, this particular tidbit of lore is not common 
knowledge at all; it’s preserved as one of the greatest 
secrets of the clan, and it can’t be accessed through the 
Network itself. Anyone willing to make this final plunge 
will have to somehow come up with the idea in the first 
place, and then do the legwork to make it necessary. 
Nothing is ever easy for the Malkavians. 
Immaculate Aura (1-pt. Merit)
Whether because of your iron control or some fluke 
of chance, your aura does not give away your insanity. 
The aura doesn’t shift or swirl at all, even when you’re 
confused, frenzied or in a psychotic fit. 
Benevolent Blood (1-pt. Merit)
Your blood still carries the Curse of Malkav, but its effects 
have been lessened just a little bit. Any ghouls you create suffer 


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
65
none of the usual deranging side effects of drinking Malkavian 
blood — they can be loaded to the gills with your blood and 
not come one step nearer to gaining a derangement. (They 
might still be driven insane by life with you, though, depend-
ing on how demanding your reality is.) Of course, any childer 
you Embrace will still gain a derangement after the Embrace as 
usual — although your vitae is easily diluted by mortal blood, 
the pure stuff carries the Curse as one would expect. 
Deadened Nerves (4-pt. Merit)
Whether it was a condition you held in life or an odd 
side effect of the Embrace, your nervous system is missing a 
few connections. You have very little tactile sense, whether 
pleasure or pain. The downside of this is obvious: One of your 
senses is greatly impaired, which can keep you from noticing 
important warnings (a blade at your back, for instance — or 
in it). You suffer a +3 difficulty to all tactile-related Perception 
rolls, and the Storyteller may call for a roll to notice even 
the blatantly obvious; you might not even notice that you’ve 
been shot if the bullet doesn’t knock you down outright. 
However, your deadened nerves also protect you from 
pain, allowing you to ignore your wounds until your flesh 
is literally blasted from your bones. All penalties for wound 
levels are halved, rounding down; in other words, you suffer 
no penalties until you reach the Wounded level, where you 
deduct only one die from your dice pools, and even when 
Crippled you can still act at a mere two-die penalty. 
If the Storyteller is willing, it might be particularly 
rewarding for the Storyteller to keep track of the character’s 
health levels, and not let the player know exactly how badly 
his character has been wounded. Even if the Malkavian 
stops to give herself a quick look-over, the Storyteller puts 
things in the most general terms (i.e., “There’s a number 
of holes in your chest, but you have no idea whether the 
bullets are lodged inside or not,” “Your left arm refuses to 
move, although you’re not sure why,” and so on). This is a 
fair amount of extra work on the Storyteller’s behalf (par-
ticularly if in the interest of secrecy, the Storyteller makes 
all the Malkavian’s soak rolls in secret), but can add a lot 
of tension and verisimilitude to the game. 
MET System: Bruised characters with this Merit have 
their full Trait levels for all tied challenges. When Wounded, 
they need not risk additional Traits to attempt challenges, 
although they still automatically lose tied challenges.
Disembodied Mentor (5-pt. Merit)
The voices in your head may tell you things, but by God, 
they’re useful things. You have a personal guide and advisor 
(bought as usual through the Background: Mentor) who exists 
largely in your own skull. He may have been a Malkavian 
who uploaded himself into the Network, or perhaps he’s an 
imaginary construct with access to the shared memories of 
the clan. Either way, it’s exceedingly hard for your enemies to 
cut you off from your mentor’s counsel, and it’s usually pretty 


Clanbook: Malkavian
66
easy to call on his advice when you need it. Unfortunately, 
this Merit also has its drawbacks; your mentor can find you 
whenever he chooses, and can be a real distraction when 
you’re trying to do something he finds irrelevant. You’re not 
freed from the obligations of your relationship, either; you 
find yourself running errands for your mentor just as often 
as any other pupil would, if not more so. 
MET System: This Trait isn’t appropriate for live-action 
play, as it would require the constant attention of a Storyteller.
Sympathetic Bond (5-pt. Merit)
For whatever reason, you unconsciously cause a peculiar 
supernatural form of feedback through the links of the blood 
bond. Although you’re not immune to being blood bound 
(and cannot take the Merit: Unbondable), if you do become 
bound to someone, your regnant also becomes blood bound to 
you to an equal extent. Even if she was already blood bound 
to another, she now has the unenviable position of being 
regnant to two vampires at once. This can obviously lead to 
some unplanned and quite twisted codependent relationships. 
Stigmata (2-4 pt. Flaw)
You constantly seep blood from phantom wounds; even 
though your flesh remains unbroken, you bleed. The bleeding 
is fairly slight, but is incessant, costing you an extra blood 
point each evening (marked off just before dawn). If you 
bleed from visible locations (such as the palms, a common 
place for stigmata), you are at +1 difficulty to all Social rolls, 
although certain vampires will probably take your reputation 
as a seer more seriously. 
The 4-point version of this Flaw indicates that you 
bleed from your eyesockets; this obviously makes it almost 
impossible to travel within human society unveiled, and 
very much disturbs other Cainites (the difficulty of all Social 
rolls is increased by +2 rather than +1). In addition, the 
constant bleeding interferes with your vision, adding one 
to the difficulty of all visual Perception rolls. 
MET System: This Flaw is worth either two or four 
Traits. In both cases, you lose an additional blood Trait each 
evening just before dawn. The two-Trait version also gives 
you a one-Trait penalty on Social challenges; the four-Trait 
Flaw gives you a two-Trait penalty on those challenges, and 
a one-trait penalty to visual perception challenges besides. 
Needless to say, this Flaw, particularly the four-Trait version, 
is probably best left to games that take place on Halloween 
or well away from ordinary civilians; if you think they react 
poorly to people dressed like vampires, imagine how they’d 
react to someone with fake blood smeared down their cheeks.
Infectious (3-pt. Flaw)
Your bite transmits the madness of your clan. Whenever 
you feed from a mortal, the power of the Kiss holds them 
in place as normal. However, your mortal prey gains a tem-
porary derangement for every three blood points you take 
from them; the madness lasts for a week or so. Malkavians 
with this Flaw are often the ones you hear about infesting 
asylums; it’s the most low-key place for them to feed. 
MET System: This Flaw is worth three Traits; the 
prey gains one derangement per three Blood Traits drawn.
Recommended Sources
To be honest, there are countless books, stories, films and 
the like out there that dwell on deception and perception; 
most of these offer a little insight toward what it’s like to 
see things that nobody else sees. The following sources are 
particularly recommended for looks, satirical and otherwise, 
at what living in an alternate state of reality is like. 
• Films
I Shot Andy Warhol — Dysfunctional and obsessive 
behavior aplenty; well-acted to boot.  
Jacob’s Ladder — Plenty of surrealism and hallucina-
tions; something for would-be schizophrenics to check out. 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest — The book is also 
good, but the movie is rightly praised. Life among the mad 
isn’t something to envy, that’s for sure. 
The Shining — See this movie. Now.
The Sixth Sense — In addition to being somewhat 
supernatural in scope, this film very believably portrays 
the power of delusion with an added twist at the end.
Twelve Monkeys — Well, actually, most of Terry Gilliam’s 
films are excellent studies in sudden “reality shifts”, but this 
one in particular showcases the multiple loose ends and 
outside influences that dominate a Malkavian’s existence. 
What can you trust? 
• Books
Bradbury, Ray. The October Country. Although it’s rare 
that the word “madness” crops up in any of these stories, it 
doesn’t have to. The mood is masterful, and nobody does a 
better job of portraying people who are firmly (yet subtly) 
convinced of something very irrational — or who become 
so. Excellent ideas for staging a schizophrenic.  
Burroughs, William S. Naked Lunch. If you don’t have 
some ideas for roleplaying a hallucinatory Malkavian after 
reading this, there’s no help for you. 
Chase, Truddi.When Rabbit Howls. The autobiography 
of a multiple personality disorder victim; very much worth 
reading, and all the more chilling because it’s non-fiction. 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. This 
manual establishes the common language of psychopathology; 
highly technical, of course, but with volumes of information 
on diagnosis, symptoms, multiple disorders and so on. You’re 
sure to find something interesting inside. 
Ellis, Bret Easton. American Psycho. Pop-psychology, to 
be sure, but nasty and brutish enough to inspire at least one 
homicidal Malkavian.


Chapter Two: Inside Bedlam
67
Eco, Umberto. Foucault’s Pendulum. A very involved 
trip into mysticism, paranoia and madness. Yes, it’s dense, 
but so are the layers of most Malkavians’ psychoses. 
Faulkner, William. The Sound and the Fury. Plenty of 
material here for decaying families, as well as characters 
that are on the brink — fucked up but not yet completely 
dysfunctional. 
Heller, Joseph. Catch-22. Satire about madness and war; 
not the most serious look at mental illness, but a good read 
nonetheless that summarizes the futility of remaining sane 
in a world that has no use for sanity. 
Jackson, Shirley. The Haunting of Hill House. What looks 
at first to be a simple story about a haunted house instead 
becomes an exploration of the psyche and its fragility. A 
must-read for any budding Malkavians. 
Joyce, James. Ulysses. Even if you don’t get very far into 
the work, it doesn’t take that long to pick up the stream-of-
consciousness style. Probably more useful for Storytellers 
than players, as it’d be hard to speak in character in such 
a fashion for an entire evening. 
Kafka, Franz. His most famous work, “Metamorphosis,” 
is an excellent study in what it’s like to wake up one morning 
and not be part of the normal world any more. However, 
there’s more to Kafka than that one story, and much of it 
is fleshcrawlingly appropriate.  
Poe, Edgar Allan. Poe’s life itself is good source material 
for obsession and deterioration, but his fiction is equally 
useful for inspiring gothic elders in the throes of dementia. 
Sayers, Dorothy. Gaudy Night. A murder mystery 
founded on the oddly simple theory that if everyone around 
expects you to be unstable, it is virtually impossible to hold 
on to your stability. 
Shea & Wilson, Illuminatus Trilogy. All right, so it’s 
gooby and comical, but even so, it’s not a bad reference 
work for pranking. 
Shaffer, Peter. Equus. This play is a must, whether you 
read it or go see it. It explores obsession and borderline san-
ity, serious mindgames between doctor and patient, and an 
interesting viewpoint on how Malkavians might view what 
the rest of the world calls “normal.”
Thompson, Hunter S. Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. 
Something of a field guide to states of altered consciousness; 
although it focuses more on drugs than good old-fashioned 
psychoses, most of the people in the book “just ain’t right.”


Clanbook: Malkavian
68
™


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
69
Chapter Three: 
Shards of a  
Broken Mirror
The Normal is the good smile in a child’s eyes — all right. It is also 
the dead stare in a million adults. It both sustains and kills — like a God. 
It is the Ordinary made beautiful: it is also the Average made lethal. The 
Normal is the indispensable, murderous God of Health, and I am his Priest. 
My tools are very delicate. My compassion is honest. I have honestly as-
sisted children in this room. I have talked away terrors and relieved many 
agonies. But also — beyond question — I have cut from them parts of 
individuality repugnant to this God, in both his aspects. Parts sacred to 
rarer and more wonderful Gods. 
—Peter Shaffer, Equus
There are no stereotypes among Malkavians. 
They’re harder to classify than the inmates of any 
mental institution — because, after all, the institution 
doesn’t have any inmates of the kind that can’t readily 
be detected as insane. The Malkavians, on the other 
hand, range from the obviously psychotic to the almost 
invisibly deranged. Some are benevolent, others socio-
pathic; some are retreating, others singularly aggressive. 
The only thing that unites the members of this teetering, 
decrepit family — apart from their demented blood — is 
the fact that they remain stoically, resolvedly, if ever 
so barely functional. The Malkavian who manages to 
survive in the perilous modern nights of the Jyhad is a 
dangerous creature. Those that don’t…well, you never 
hear about them. 
The following Malkavians, whether new to undeath 
or terribly old and clever, are all survivors. Each one 
struggles with the forces that assault him within his 
own mind; each one has access to insights and talents 
that allow him to hold his own or more in Kindred 
society. Like all the rest of their ilk, they shouldn’t be 
underestimated. After all, you never know what angle 
they’re going to choose next to approach something — 
including your throat.


Clanbook: Malkavian
70
Art Dealer
Quote: It’s very visceral, isn’t it? The artist, poor man, is of 
course highly disturbed. It was certainly unfortunate for his par-
ents — but I’m sure you’ll agree that the art world has benefited 
tremendously. Go on, don’t be shy — look deeper. 
Prelude: As far back as you could remember, you loved art. 
You tried your best with crayons, modeling clay, pen-and-ink and 
crafts of all sorts — but alas, you weren’t fortunate enough to be 
born with true talent. Instead, yours were the gifts of intelligence 
and a discerning eye — and no small measure of stubbornness. So 
what you lacked in vision, you decided to make up for in education. 
Even if you couldn’t create art that would communicate on the 
soul’s level, you could certainly do your best to bring it to others. 
With your dedication and intelligence, you wrestled a 
scholarship to a university with a celebrated liberal arts school. 
True, your family could have afforded to send you without it, 
but if Daddy had actually had to break out the checkbook, he 
would have been the one to choose your major. You majored in 
art history (trying the occasional painting course in vain), with a 
minor, oddly enough, in psychology. As your studies progressed 
further, you became more and more fascinated with the 
way that artists — usually a troubled lot — used art 
to try communicating the things they could never 
say. Unfortunately, your 
grades weren’t all 
they could have 
been; the profes-
sors just weren’t willing to accept your ideas about collective ur-minds and the like. 
You have no idea exactly when your sire started stalking you; you remember 
a few late nights in the art building when you were getting a little paranoid even 
without the benefit of getting high. She finally caught you at one of the receptions, 
dragging you into one of the restroom stalls and bringing you across. She explained 
herself later — on the nights she felt like explaining anything — in long ramblings 
about shared consciousness, garbled lines of communication and failed attempts at 
expression. For your part, you felt a quiet thrill — at last, someone who understood. 
Concept: Malkav’s blood has only heightened your belief in a communal 
level of human consciousness, one that can’t be communicated in ordinary 
terms. With the help of some of the family’s old contacts as backers, you 
opened what has become one of the most successful, if controversial, 
art galleries in North America. You deal exclusively in art created 
by mental patients — after all, only the unstable have 
access to the deeper levels of consciousness. With 
luck, it’ll help others find something new, if perhaps 
a bit disturbing, about themselves. At the very 
least, it gives the psychopaths something new to do. 
Roleplaying Hints: Keep on the go — time, 
tide and the trendy wait for no one. Speak with patient 
authority and quiet enthusiasm — unlike many other dealers, you fervently 
believe in the statements your artists are making. And always, always, keep 
on top of things. There’s always going to be some idiot Toreador bitch who 
thinks her clan has a monopoly on visual communication, and you’ve got 
to be ready to keep her in her place. 
Equipment: Dramatically striking clothing, cell phone, portfolio of 
reproductions, cigarettes and lighter, latest art-world periodicals
Derangement: Bulimia
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Celebrant
DEMEANOR: Gallant
CLAN: Malkavian 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Art Dealer
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Resources
Retainers
Status
Auspex
Dementation


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
71
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Art Dealer
Malkavian
11th
Celebrant
Gallant
Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception, Spirit‛s Touch)
Dementation (Passion)
Contacts x 3
Generaton x 2
Influence x 2 (High Society)
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Charming x 2
Diplomatic
Expressive
Genial
Persuasive
Creative
Discerning
Insightful
Knowledgeable
Shrewd
Academics
Empathy
Expression
Streetwise
Dexterous
Energetic
Tenacious
Resources x 3
Witty
Subterfuge
Retainers x 3
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Collector
Malkavian
12th
Architecht
Thrill-Seeker
 Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception),
 Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows)
Generaton x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Attentive
Disciplined
Intuitive
Observant x 2
Patient
Reflective
Academics
Investigation
Medicine
Science (Chemistry)
Enduring
Robust
Steady
Resources x 4
Subterfuge
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Beguiling               Magnetic x 2
 Charismatic
 Ingratiating 


Clanbook: Malkavian
72
Collector
Quote: Through there? Oh, I’m afraid there’s not much back 
there; that’s my workspace, and it’s a mess right now. Nothing 
to see, really…unless you’re particularly interested in children’s 
shoes? Right, I didn’t think so.
Prelude: You were something of an introvert growing up; 
not that you had a choice. Your mother, always concerned 
about your health, never let you leave the house — she 
tutored you at home. As a result, you spent all your time 
upstairs in your spotless room. She was always there, too; 
she had money left by your father, so she had the groceries 
and other things delivered, and there was no need to leave. 
The most excitement you remember having in your 
entire childhood was the time that you managed to get up 
into the attic, not long after 
your 
grandmother’s death. You spent 
hours up there, quietly sifting 
through all the chests and trunks 
and baskets of unwanted things, 
until your mother found you and 
rushed you downstairs at once, 
complaining about the dust the 
whole time. The excitement 
stayed with you, though — 
you’d never seen so many 
things of so many 
sorts all at 
once. If only 
you’d been 
allowed to 
look through 
them longer, 
there was so 
much more 
you could 
have learned.
W h e n 
your mother 
died abruptly, 
your world 
broke apart. 
She’d taught you 
so much, but not 
how to get by in 
the outside world. 
You spent the 
days after her 
death wander-
ing the town, 
soaking up all the 
sights. There was so 
much to see, so much 
you’d never found 
out about — and it 
proved too much. 
The civil services 
people soon took you in, and somewhere along the line you 
were noticed. Your sire and his cohorts were good enough to 
teach you the rudiments of interacting with other people and 
holding down a haven — but, of course, they couldn’t teach 
you everything. You now know how to get by — to understand 
everything else, you’re going to have to be your own teacher.
Concept: You’re constantly trying to make sense of the 
world around you, and for you to do so, things need to be 
organized. You can’t order the world yourself, but at the very 
least you can choose a certain sort of thing and catalog all its 
variations. However, you have yet to fixate on collecting one 
particular item for more than a few months — if it looks like 
you’re not getting the answers you want, it’s time to move 
on. As a result, you’re always moving from one obsession 
to another, be it insects, quarters, oddly shaped oak leaves, 
human left hands, or whatever. Surely your next collection 
will hold a few more insights that the last one couldn’t. 
Roleplaying Hints: Roleplaying hints? You’re a com-
pletely normal person — a completely normal person with 
a hobby, nothing more. You don’t spend every waking mo-
ment obsessing over your hobby, and you don’t discuss it 
with people who don’t share your interest. It’s your business, 
and you certainly don’t want to bore people.
Equipment: Studio loft, latest “collection,” jeweler’s 
loupe, panoply of wide and varied craft supplies and 
hardware tools
Derangement: Obsessive/Compulsive
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE: Architecht
DEMEANOR: Thrill- Seeker
CLAN: Malkavian
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Collector
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Resources
Auspex
Obfuscate


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
73
Composer
Quote: Would you please… Would you please try to lower your 
voice, please? I’m having some difficulty hearing. 
Prelude: It was the classic tale of a talent that demanded 
immortality. Your childhood was devoted to the pursuit of music 
from as far back as you can remember; your fifth-grade recital 
was enough to secure doubled funding for your school’s music 
program. By your senior year of high school, you had your pick 
of scholarships, you were the talk of the neighborhood, and even 
the biggest dickheads in your class didn’t dare hassle you for fear 
of what the school board would do to them. 
Yours was a talent that spoke to the ages. It drew your sire, 
an immortal who’d forgotten what art really was, to you. As a per-
former, you were talented; your private compositions were genius. 
By all means, someone had to preserve your ability for all time. 
Regrettably, the vampire who chose to do so was mad. 
The Embrace drove a thousand cracks through your soul. 
By the time you were coherent and functional once more, they 
were already holding your empty-casket funeral — arrangements 
had been made, of course. You hardly noticed — the music 
flooding your head had increased in pitch and tempo, but it was 
somehow… different, almost wrong. And yet, at the same time, 
it was clearer and more insistent than ever before. 
This pleased your sire to no end. He became the ultimate patron: 
providing you with a haven and a helpmate, arranging covert 
recitals and recruiting musicians to play your new overtures, 
and finally stepping away to leave you to work unhindered. 
Now your occasional concerto draws Kindred from around 
the city and beyond, and there’s talk of producing a motion picture 
built around a soundtrack of your devising. You entertain all the 
offers politely and seriously, but always only with half an ear.  
Concept: Like any composer worthy of the title, you are 
haunted by music. It’s possible that some of what you hear is fragments 
of memories filtered in through the Madness Network; then again, 
maybe it’s just pure inspiration. You aren’t drawn quite by choice 
to the courts of vampiric society, but you often have to justify your 
existence to the prince by providing him and his hangers-on with 
new entertainment. Thankfully, your skill is such that you never 
leave him bored — quizzical, drained or disturbed, perhaps, but 
never bored. 
The music you create is far from ordinary; it’s the work of 
a mad Mozart. Those who listen to it in its entirety are exposed 
to notes that are… subversive, you might call them. Subtly and 
mercilessly, your work insinuates itself into the listener, roosting 
in their skulls, never fully leaving them. Pity the poor monster 
who attunes himself to one of your recitals with Auspex.…
Roleplaying Hints: Half-listen to the people talking to 
you; always devote at least a portion of your attention within. 
The music ebbs and flows; when it’s at “low tide,” so to speak, 
you’re as accessible as any Kindred, but when it’s in full flood, 
you need a pen and paper and damn the consequences. Smile 
politely, offer pleasantries, and grit your teeth in the hope that 
your admirers will go away and leave you to the mercy of the music. 
Equipment: Satchel full of sheet music, small soundproofed 
attic apartment, synthesizer
Derangement: Manic-Depression
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE: Loner
DEMEANOR: Visionary
CLAN: Malkavian
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Composer
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Allies
Herd
Mentor
Resources
Status
Auspex
Dementation
Obfuscate


Clanbook: Malkavian
74
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Composer
Malkavian
13th
Loner
Visionary
 Auspex (Heightened Senses),
 Dementation (Passion, The Haunting)
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows)
Allies x 2
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Creative x 2
Disciplined
Insightful x 2
Reflective
Wily
Expression x 2
Empathy
Performance: Music
Enduring
Nimble
Quick
Herd x 2
Influences x 1 (High Society)
Mentor x 1
Subterfuge
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Alluring
Expressive
Magnetic
Tireless
Tough
Resources x 3
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C
/ C
/ C
/ C
/ CONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
COURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
WILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
INFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
MERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
EMT
Malkavian Antitrubu
13th
Caregiver
Conformist
 Dementation (Passion, The Haunting)
Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows,
 Unseen Presence)
Contacts x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PA T H
A T H
A T H
A T H
A T H/HUMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
__________
Alert
Dedicated
Determined
Rational
Vigilant
Academics 
Empathy
Medicine
Quick
Steady
Wiry
Resources x 2
Science (Biology)
Survival
SELF- CONTROL/ INSTINCT
SELF- CONTROL/ INSTINCT
SELF- CONTROL/ INSTINCT
Diplomatic
Empathetic
Friendly x 2
Genial
Persuasive x 2


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
75
EMT
Quote: First, do no harm. First, do no harm. First, do no harm.
Prelude: You were no stranger to violence growing up, although your father did his best to keep his “business” far away 
from you. He didn’t want you to have to do the things he did for a living, or to have a price on your head, so he worked 
damn hard to make sure that you were sheltered from the reality of his “family obligations.” It didn’t quite work out that 
way; you saw Uncle Julie shot down when you were 10. That was the day you became completely ashamed of who you were. 
Your family wasn’t a safe place to go for solace, so you turned to the Church. You desperately wanted to believe in a world 
where compassion and mercy and peace actually meant something, and so you did believe. Once you graduated to college, 
you majored in medicine; it seemed only appropriate that you give back to the community, since your family was taking so 
much away. When you got your residency, your father was very, very proud — but that didn’t mean anything to you at all. 
It was on a late-night shift in the ER when you were taken. You pronounced the John Doe dead on arrival — imagine your 
surprise when he walked into the bathroom out of nowhere and opened your throat. When you came to, 
you were in your own apartment, and he was there with you, somewhat apologetic. Just like your father. 
Since then, you’ve fled the city you grew up in; you’re desperately trying to hide from your 
sire and family members both. You managed to get a job as an EMT on the graveyard shift, where 
you do your absolute best to keep on helping people. You tend to feed by using Obfuscate to slip 
into the hospital’s morgue, rather than preying on the people you have a responsibility to save. 
Every time you bundle a broken, bleeding body into the back of the ambulance, the temptation 
is horrible — but you’ll continue to resist. Your very soul is at stake. 
Concept: All you ever wanted to do was help people. Now you’re a creature that’s forced to 
prey on people to survive. Well, not if you can help it. Your remarkably high Humanity score 
means that you’re constantly conflicting with your predatory nature, but when lives are 
at stake, you usually manage to pull through. On the times that you’ve actually fed 
on fresh human blood, you could feel the voices of the people you were devour-
ing in your head — it disturbs you to no end, and you force yourself to choke 
down stale blood rather than eat everything a living person is. 
Roleplaying Hints: Always work to heal, rather than to harm. You’re 
not squeamish, no matter what others might think — you’re compassionate, 
and there’s a dif-
ference. You’re 
d e s p e r a t e l y 
ashamed of what 
you are, but you 
refuse to believe 
that you’re incapa-
ble of doing some 
good even in your 
current condition. Ev-
ery now and again, you 
consider trying to find 
your family and recon-
cile with them — but 
the feeling always 
passes. 
Equipment: 
EMT card, cramped 
apartment, medi-
cal texts, first-aid kit
D e r a n g e -
ment: Sanguinary 
Animism
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Caregiver
DEMEANOR: Conformist
CLAN: Malkavian Antrtribu
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: EMT
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Resources
Dementation
Obfuscate


Clanbook: Malkavian
76
Methuselah’s Pawn
Quote: It’s not my fault. It wasn’t my decision. There’s…
there’s something else going on here. You’ve got to believe me. 
Prelude: You grew up strictly blue-collar in a large family. 
With four siblings, and you stuck firmly in the middle, you 
had to work extra hard to earn your parents’ attention. 
Even then, it was never undivided — you had 
to share with the rest of the family. 
In high school, you tried harder than 
ever before to get people to listen to you. 
You volunteered for project after project, 
particularly things like the school paper 
and yearbook. Your impressed guidance 
counselor started pushing you toward a 
career in journalism, and you were more 
than happy to head down that road. 
And journalism might’ve worked out for 
you; you did well in college, you did well with 
your first job at a paper, and you soon 
moved to television. Unfortu-
nately for you, you got 
a little too overzealous 
investigating a strange 
series of kidnappings, 
and came to the at-
tention of the party 
responsible. The thing 
— and there’s really 
no other way you can 
think of it — decided 
that your talents for 
investigation and 
communication 
would be highly use-
ful to it, particularly 
if you acted as its 
catspaw in Kindred 
society. The rest was 
a foregone conclusion. 
You’d always sub-
consciously hoped 
that you’d be impor-
tant to someone, 
that someone 
would finally pay 
attention to you, want 
you on their side. These nights, 
you wish that you could have 
stayed neglected forever.
Concept: You’re a puppet 
who can see its own strings 
— very aware of your lack of 
control, but powerless to do 
anything about it. Your sire has 
chosen you to act on its behalf in 
Kindred society; although you have a 
fair amount of leeway to pursue your 
own goals, its orders take priority. 
You don’t see the elder thing that 
sired you in the flesh very often, but 
every once in a while, the compul-
sions come filtering into your head 
from outside. When that happens, 
you have little choice but to obey. 
Roleplaying Hints: More 
than anything else, you crave time 
to yourself, but every time you think 
you’re alone, that hideous, overpower-
ing presence starts crawling into your 
brain. When under orders, speak with the 
warm, strong voice others tend to associate 
with television journalists; when on your 
own, your voice tends to falter a little, and 
your defense break down. You really wish you 
could meet someone who understands, someone 
you could confide in — you might be a little too 
prone to falling for people that you think might 
offer some consolation. 
Equipment: Note pads, pocket tape re-
corder, nice clothing, Saturn four-door, sizable 
apartment, icepick
Derangement: Self-Annihilation Impulse
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Director
DEMEANOR: Fanatic
CLAN: Malkavian
GENERATION: 8th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Methuselah's Pawn
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Generation
Mentor
Resources
Dementation


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
77
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Methuselah's Pawn
Malkavian
8th
Director
Fanatic
  Dementation (Passion,
 The Haunting, Eyes of Chaos)
Contacts x 4
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Cunning
Knowledgeable x 2
Observant
Patient
Shrewd x 2
Academics 
Ettiquette
Investigation
Agile
Graceful
Resilient x 2
Generation x 5
Mentor x 3
Resources x 2
Law
Politics
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Commanding x 2
Dignified
Stalwart
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Mortifier of the Flesh
Malkavian
13th
Bravo
Masochist
  Auspex (Heightened Senses,
 Aura Perception)
Fame x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Cunning
Intuitive
Patient
Brawl
Intimidation
Melee
Lithe x 2
Rugged x 2
Tenacious x 2
Herd x 1
Influence  x 1 (Street)
Resources x 1
Streetwise
Survival
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Charismatic
Ingratiating
Intimidating x 2
Tough
Witty
Retainers x 1
  Fortitude (Endurance)
 Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows)


Clanbook: Malkavian
78
Mortifier of the Flesh
Quote: That all you got? 
Prelude: You were an athletic one right from the start. 
Most of your childhood was spent racing around parks, 
empty lots, even quarries and construction sites. When you 
discovered wheels in the form of skates and skateboards, you 
were even harder to catch. Nothing felt better than exercise 
and speed, in that order. Wall-climbing, skateboarding, street 
hockey — you were mastering “extreme sports” even before 
the phrase “extreme sports” came into fashion. 
With that came fights, of course. The jocks who thought 
that football, basketball and wrestling were the only “real 
sports” were more than happy to try beating up a skinny street 
punk who thought he was hot stuff. Although you could never 
do much about the odds, you learned ways of getting back at 
any of the bastards you caught alone. Eventually they caught 
the hint and started leaving you alone — 
which was almost a disappointment. 
Even though it hurt, a good fight was 
always another great way to get that 
hit of adrenaline. 
Eventually, though, one of 
the wipeouts was bound to be seri-
ous — and it was. Skateboards and 
mass transit just didn’t mix. Flat 
on your back, gasping oxygen 
in the back of an ambulance, 
you wondered if your time 
had finally run out. It had. 
You never reached the 
hospital — your ride was 
intercepted. 
When you came 
across, it was horrible. 
Somewhere between 
life and unlife, you lost 
most of your sense of 
feeling. Not only was 
it impossible to get 
your usual kind of 
rush, it was impos-
sible to get much 
feeling at all. 
You might have 
gone unusable if 
your sire hadn’t im-
mediately given you 
something to do. To 
his surprise, you came back 
from the task he’d set for you 
completely successful, and with 
some added insight to boot. 
There was still some feeling 
left — it just required a certain 
kind of…extreme stimulus to 
come out.
Concept: In life, you were an adrenaline 
junkie. In undeath, you’re a sensation-seeker 
of an entirely different sort. When you lost 
the exquisite joys of the flesh, you had to turn 
to more extreme measures to make your 
body react. And while self-mutilation 
is a good way to start your night, it’s 
your freelance capacity as a legbreaker 
and cleaner that really provides you 
with ways to get creatively hurt. The 
problem is figuring out how to keep 
your reputation from preceding you — 
those folks who’ve heard about you figure 
that with the things you do to yourself, 
you’d be even worse to them. They cave 
way too easy, and that’s just wrong. 
Roleplaying Hints: They say you’re 
more suicidal than homicidal; that’s not strictly 
accurate. You want to win your fights, but you want 
to feel like you’ve been in a fight afterwards. Let 
your opponent have the first shot; then take him 
down. Be exactly as brutal as you need to; you’re no 
sadist, you’re a professional. The real experiments 
in pain you can save for your own unliving flesh.
Equipment: Straight razor, .38 automatic, 
hammer, carpentry nails, canister of table salt, 
freezer tape, brass knuckles, roll of barbed 
wire, motorcycle
Derangement: Masochism
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Bravo
DEMEANOR: Masochist
CLAN: Malkavian
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Mortifier 
of the Flesh
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Fame
Herd
Resources
Retainers
Status
Auspex
Obfuscate
Fortitude


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
79
Occult Savant
Quote: Look at the map. It’s real simple. He’s leaving his apart-
ment here, at the Keter point. He’s going to ultimately wind up at the 
drop point here, at the point of Malchut. What we need to do is to 
catch him just outside the gas station on Cedarwood, here — at the 
point of Gevurah. Or, if we’re lucky, the influence will be Pachad. 
Either way, the focus will be against him. Got it?  
Prelude: You didn’t even like to read when you were still alive. 
You were a real child of the ’90s, with an attention span that couldn’t 
digest anything that wasn’t presented in colorful 30-second chunks. 
Your parents despaired of you ever making something of yourself; 
then they just stopped caring at all. Which suited you fine; all you 
wanted was music, TV and dating, all at a speed that wouldn’t 
bore you. 
The Rites of Embrace changed everything — everything. 
You and your girl-
friends were coming 
home from a late-
night movie when 
you were caught. 
The other car just 
rammed into yours 
at top speed; you 
were thrown free, 
which is maybe why they 
found it expedient to 
take you rather 
than feed on your corpse — unlike the others. You were semiconscious when they 
dragged you away, and you never really came out of your delirium.   
The things you saw during the Rites of Embrace — they changed you. You 
emerged from the earth starving, but no matter how much blood they gave you, 
the hunger remained. When the others discovered how ravenous you were to 
learn things, they introduced you to a templar with an extensive library. And 
under his tutelage, your unique talent bloomed. 
Now you devour all the occult esoterica you can dig up, assimilating it as quickly 
as possible, filing it randomly in your head and spitting out your “results” as needed. 
Your knowledge has proven useful and useless to your pack in equal turns; sometimes 
you’re dead-on and sometimes you’re completely off. You can’t be convinced that your 
logic is faulty, though. It’s not your problem if the universe isn’t keeping up with you. 
Concept: Your nights are devoted to the pursuit of hidden knowledge, 
but the way you apply your findings is…eccentric, to say the least. You see 
connections where other occultists would say no connections exist, and ignore 
other, positively blatant, connections. Even if someone were to offer to teach you 
Thaumaturgy, your encyclopedic but off-kilter “understanding” of the universe’s 
patterns might grant you outstanding mastery of the power — or prevent you from 
ever understanding so much as the basics. You’re almost beyond such magics, really. 
Roleplaying Hints: The patterns are all around you. Lots of them are evident, 
but lots more can’t be pieced together without study, observation and all the right 
questions. You try to explain the patterns you see to your packmates, but your habit 
of jumping several sentences ahead makes you fairly hard to understand. If they 
think you’re full of it, take no notice; they’ll come around eventually. 
Equipment: Cramped apartment packed with books, customized tarot deck 
drawn on index cards, stacks of legal pads filled with cryptic scribblings, sketchbooks, 
chalk, pendulum
Derangement: Obsessive/Compulsive
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Deviant
DEMEANOR: Thrill-Seeker
CLAN: Malkavian Antitribu
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Occult Savant
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Mentor
Resources
Rituals
Sabbat Status
Auspex
Dementation
Obfuscate


Clanbook: Malkavian
80
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Occult Savant
Malkavian Antitribu
13th
Deviant
Thrill-Seeker
 Auspex (Heightened Senses)
Contacts x 2
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Attentive
Clever
Discerning
Firearms
Investigation
Melee
Agile
Dexterous
Enduring
Mentor x 1
Resources  x 2
Rituals x 2
Occult x 2
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Beguiling x 2
Dignified
Expressive
Magnetic x 2
Seductive
  Dementation (Passion,
 The Haunting)
 Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows)
Observant
Rational
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Sensei
Malkavian
11th
Pedagogue
Gallant
 Auspex (Heightened Senses)
Generation x 2
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Disciplined
Patient
Vigilant x 2
Athletics
Brawl
Law
Brawny x 2
Dexterous
Lithe, Quick x 2
Herd x 1
Resources  x 1
Retainers x 2
Melee
Survival
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Dignified x 2
Intimidating
   Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows,
Unseen Presence)
Wise
Stalwart
Tireless
Vigorous


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
81
Sensei
Quote: Of course I hit him with the car. He might have been 
the Buddha. Is he still moving? Ah. Then I’ll put it in reverse. 
Prelude: In your neighborhood, there weren’t a whole lot 
of options open for bettering yourself. You tried a few of them, 
but none of them really took before you started joining in some 
self-defense classes at the Y. Suddenly, there was a lifestyle that 
attracted you — strength tempered with wisdom. The strength 
to take what you deserved, and the wisdom to tell you how. 
Once you were old enough to hold down a part-time job, 
you enrolled in a dojo to learn the real thing. However, you were 
still a good way from black belt before you hit a serious wall. Your 
sensei said that you lacked the spirit and self-discipline to progress 
any further; your frustration didn’t help much, either. You tried 
cramming to learn all the “right” answers to his philosophical 
questions, but even that didn’t work. 
You’re not sure why you were Em-
braced at that point; perhaps 
your frustration was so in-
tense that your sire couldn’t 
resist its savor. It didn’t 
matter, though. The death 
of your body was a break-
through. Suddenly you saw 
that there was so much more 
— and you took the first step 
in understanding that you 
knew nothing. 
Concept: You practice a peculiar brand of Zen Buddhism; like others 
of the faith, you attempt to break through the barriers of intellect to 
achieve enlightenment, but meditation and koans are not sufficient 
for you. You deliberately practice the nonrational in thought 
and deed, often in ways that any living Zen practitioner 
would find extreme. But the more you practice, the 
more that you become able to see — and the more you 
are inhibited. You cannot decide whether the Sight is 
the path to understanding, or whether it is an anchor 
around your neck. Until the answer is made plain, you 
have no choice but to act. As a result, you’re far from a 
sequestered hermit, but an active — if barely understood 
— player in the city’s Kindred society. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’re equally capable of reflecting 
and meditating on a course of action or koan, or acting without 
conscious thought; and your personal conviction requires you to 
alternate between one and the other as quickly as possible, to throw 
off the bounds of rationality. You don’t even use your martial skill on 
a regular basis anymore; it’s just as important to pull a gun and shoot 
your opponent after exchanging a few blocks and feints. You’re willing 
to teach others, but your own internal struggle makes you inaccessible 
at times; sometimes you offer a koan as advice, sometimes you speak 
rationally, and sometimes you just strike your student as hard as you 
can. Such is the road to understanding. 
Equipment: Loft over a small dojo, “prayer bead” string of 
beads and teeth; compact car, hardwood hanbo stick
Derangement: Desensitization
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Pedagogue
DEMEANOR: Gallant
CLAN: Malkavian 
GENERATION: 11th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Sensei
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Generation
Herd
Resources
Retainers
Auspex
Obfuscate


Clanbook: Malkavian
82
Talk Radio Host
Quote: Look, caller, I don’t mean to cut you off here, but don’t 
you think you’re being a little naive? Look at the world around you — 
look at the skin that’s been prepared to keep you in your place. Now, 
maybe you’re happy to go on living in this façade that they’ve provided 
for you, but I want a little more. I want the truth!
Prelude: You grew up privileged — private school, household 
staff, parents buying off your traffic tickets — all that. Nobody ever 
really chewed you out or forced you to learn some discipline, and 
you weren’t hungry a day in your life. It wasn’t until college that 
you ran face-first into the real world.  
All of a sudden, your parents couldn’t buy the deans off any 
more, and your grades started to fall. Oh, the rumors floating around 
were innumerable. Most blamed your family’s sudden economic loss 
on bad debts, gambling, a disastrous day at the stock market…all 
sorts of things. You, on the other hand, didn’t believe a word of it. 
There was no way your parents could have been responsible for their 
misfortune. Someone else must have had a hand in it, must have 
had it in for them. At first you thought it was 
the liberals in government, but the more 
you immersed yourself in conspiracy-
theory literature, the more possibilities 
started opening up. You didn’t have 
the resources to get to the heart of 
whatever was going on, but the least 
you could do was warn other people. 
So you swallowed your pride and took 
two part-time jobs, one of them at the 
college radio station. It went well for you 
— if there was one thing in your favor, it 
was your skill at oration — and eventually 
you landed a late-night talk segment. It 
proved so popular that soon you 
were able to move your act to 
a professional radio station. 
Your Embrace came 
out of nowhere, in the 
form of a seemingly ran-
dom attack when you 
were walking to your car. 
Your first few nights were 
tense and horrible; you 
never saw your sire once. 
The only communication 
you received were odd 
messages on your answer-
ing machine, instructions 
shoved under your door 
in blank envelopes, the 
occasional terse phone 
call — it’s no wonder 
you didn’t take well 
to vampirism. 
Eventually 
you got the 
h a n g  
o f 
hunting; the 
secrecy and 
double-talk you’d already mastered. 
Concept: The small hours of the night, the “midnight 
of the soul,” the wide, bleak stretch when people’s 
minds start running away with them — that’s 
your time. You can reach people with your 
show, get inside their heads when they’re 
that particular kind of receptive. You don’t 
know who your benefactors are, but for 
now you’ll play their game and push 
their agendas — until you can make a 
move on them and push an agenda of 
their own. 
Roleplaying Hints: You have a 
definite need to educate, to get people 
questioning the big lies they’ve been 
fed by the Powers in Control. Be brash 
and confrontational, provocative 
without being completely obnox-
ious. Use humor when possible, insults 
when necessary, and twisted logic as ap-
propriate. Give your audience what they 
want — and something extra on the side. 
Equipment: Cramped apart-
ment, stacks of conspiracy 
literature and journals, personal 
tape recorder
Derangement: Paranoia
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Fanatic
DEMEANOR: Rogue
CLAN: Malkavian 
GENERATION: 13th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Talk Radio Host
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Fame
Resources
Dementation
Obfuscate


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
83
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
___________
___
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Talk Radio Host
Malkavian
13th
Fanatic
Rogue
 Dementation (Passion)
Contacts x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Clever x 2
Dedicated
Knowledgeable
Computer
Expression
Investigation
Dexterous
Energetic
Tough
Fame x 1
Resources  x 2
Occult
Performance
Politics
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Eloquent
Expressive x 2
Persuasive x 2
   Obfuscate (Cloak of Shadows,
Unseen Presence)
Wily
Witty x 2
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
NNNNNAME
AME
AME
AME
AME______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
CCCCCHARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER
HARACTER___________
___________
___________
__________
___
CCCCCHRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE
HRONICLE___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCLAN
LAN
LAN
LAN
LAN______________
______________
______________
______________
______________
GGGGGENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION
ENERATION__________
__________
__________
__________
__________
AAAAAGE
GE
GE
GE
GE_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
NNNNNATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE
ATURE____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
DDDDDEMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR
EMEANOR___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
CCCCCONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE
ONSCIENCE/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C 
/ C ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
ONVICTION
HHHHH
HHHHH
CCCCCOURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
OURAGE
HHHHH
BBBBBLOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
LOOD
HHHHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKKKK
W
WW
WWILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
ILLPOWER
HHHHHHHHHH
KKKKKKKKKK
BBBBBACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
ACKGROUNDS
IIIIINFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
NFLUENCES
DDDDDISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
ISCIPLINES
M
MM
MMERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS
ERITS & F
 & F
 & F
 & F
 & FLAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
LAWS
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
___________
___________
___________
___________
_______________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______________
________
________
________
_________________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_____
_____
_____
_________________
____________
____________
____________
____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
Third-Shift Prison Guard
Malkavian
13th
Conniver
Sadist
 Auspex (Heightened Senses,
Aura Perception)
Generation x 1
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
PPPPPA T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H 
A T H / / / / / H 
H H 
H H UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
UMANITY
HHHHH
PPPPPHYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
HYSICAL
SSSSSOCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
OCIAL
M
MM
M
MENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
ENTAL
AAAAABILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
BILITIES
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  __________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
  ____________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
_________
_________
_________
_________
______________
Alert x 2
Intuitive x 2
Vigilant
Brawl
Firearms
Intimidation
Brawny x 2
Ferocious
Quick
Herd x 4
Retainers  x 2
Melee
Survival
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
SELF- C ONTROL/ I NSTINCT
Commanding
Intimidating x 2
  
 Dementation (Passion)
Potence (Prowess)
Robust
Tireless
Vigorous


Clanbook: Malkavian
84
Third-Shift Prison Guard
Quote: You seem like a clever guy; clever enough to know not to 
make any trouble. I think I could use a guy like you. You might want 
to think about that; there are some real side benefits to having someone 
like me watching out for you in here. 
Prelude: You grew up tough, and more than a little bent. 
The tiny Deep South town you were raised in never seemed big 
enough to you; once you’d proven that you could lick any man 
there you wanted too, it was time to see about proving that you 
could make it in the big city, too. 
Unfortunately, once you got there, it turned out that you were 
pretty small-time after all. Moving in and setting up an operation 
wasn’t nearly as easy as you’d thought it’d be — although your 
competitors were as lacking in formal education as you were, they 
knew a lot more about the territory than you did. You were pretty 
lucky to get off with just a few thorough beatings instead of a bullet 
in your skull. That wasn’t how you saw it, of course. In your mind, 
someone needed to die for the royal crime of fucking with you. 
Would’ve worked great if the cops hadn’t shown up. 
They were already staking out your victim, and hey, you 
were a bonus for them. The judge wasn’t a sympathetic 
sort, and pretty soon you found yourself sharing a cell 
with a three-time killer. 
Surviving prison was the toughest thing you ever 
did. Plenty of bruisers liked to pick on the hick, so you 
got used to being on the receiving end of a beatdown. 
Once in a while you caught one of your tormentors 
alone — sure, you went to solitary, but he went 
to the infirmary. It’s a wonder you ever 
made parole. In fact, looking back 
on it, somebody must have been 
pulling strings — the same guy 
who picked you up the night 
of your release and gave you 
one damn attractive offer.
With a little bit of 
bribery and some new 
paperwork, you found 
yourself inside prison 
walls again. However, 
this time you’re the one 
who’s got the real power. 
Guards, prisoners: They 
all know not to mess 
with you. This is your 
domain now. 
Concept: You’ve 
got it pretty much 
made. Nobody really 
cares about most of 
the prisoners under 
your jurisdiction, 
so they’re an 
easy source of 
meals. Those 
that do know 
something about your 
nature — fellow guard 
and prisoner alike — are your willing helpmates, glad 
to do your bidding in exchange for a shot of 
blood and an evening on the outside. You’re 
a very effective broker in muscle, and 
many of your peers are willing to pay 
handsomely for your boys’ services. 
Yes indeed, unlife is sweet. 
Roleplaying Hints: Speak 
softly and swagger just a little bit. 
Project an aura of quiet confi-
dence; you don’t need to resort 
to brutality in order to keep your 
charges in line. Size up everyone 
you meet; you’re real good at 
evaluating potential resources. 
Never be afraid to volunteer a 
potential favor, and never let 
them forget what they owe you. 
Equipment: Uniform, 
nightstick, taser, standard 
issue revolver, prison blue-
prints, keyring, keycodes, 
hidden stash of cigarettes, 
drugs and pornography
Derangement: 
Megalomania
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
NAME:
PLAYER:
CHRONICLE:
NATURE:Conniver
DEMEANOR: Sadist
CLAN: Malkavian 
GENERATION: 12th
HAVEN:
CONCEPT: Third Shift 
Prison Guard
ATTRIBUTES
TALENTS
SOCIAL
MENTAL
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
ABILITIES
PHYSICAL
SKILLS
KNOWLEDGES
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
BACKGROUNDS
ADVANTAGES
DISCIPLINES
VIRTUES
________________________
________________________
________________________
_________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
MERITS/FLAWS
HUMANITY/PATH
HEALTH
WILLPOWER
BLOOD
EXPERIENCE
 POOL
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
____________________________________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt
-1
Injured
-1
Wounded
-2
Mauled
-2
Crippled
-5
Incapacitated
Contacts
Fame
Resources
Auspex
Dementation
Potence


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
85
Sample Brood: 
The Moirai
They take their name from the Greek Fates, and 
follow in the Fates’ footsteps. They are soothsayers who 
provide dire warnings when least expected, yet who re-
main silent when specific questions are posed to them. 
They are troublemakers who ferret out the dirty secrets 
of vampire elders, almost on a whim, and expose them to 
the rest of the city’s Kindred. They are disliked and even 
hated, and yet they’re also deemed as near-indispensable. 
And they are very much the epitome of what many 
vampires think of as “Malkavian.”
The Moirai are presented as a possible resource for the 
Storyteller, to be plugged in as extra supporting cast for 
a chronicle, a source of plot hooks, or even as potential 
background cast for a specific character. There aren’t any 
references to specific cities; the Hyde and its denizens 
can be dropped into the city of your own chronicle as 
needed. And although presented as Camarilla-oriented, 
the Moirai can be easily tweaked to fit Sabbat or sect-
independent chronicles. 
Come and meet them. 
History
The Moirai are a fairly new phenomenon in the 
chronicle’s city; they’ve been active for only a few years, 
but they’ve proven the value of their insight many times 
over since then. What isn’t particularly well-known is 
that the Malkavian tradition of small broods dedicated 
to communal, “enlightening” pranks and prophecies has 
been around for a long time, possibly even for millennia. 
Every vampire is used to Malkavians croaking out little 
snippets of insight, pointing out things that nobody else 
can see. What makes the Moirai unusual, though, is that 
they do so as a very effective whole. When a vision needs 
to be shared, the whole coterie puts in a communal effort 
to adapt that vision so that other Kindred can see it.
This particular brood came together 25 or so years ago, 
when the itinerant Emmanual Moncrief and his childe 
answered a peculiar Call. When they found the young 
Lunatic making the broadcast, they were rather surprised 
to find that she had no idea she had called them. After 
a long evening of very tense conversation, the three of 
them puzzled out that the Call hadn’t come from any of 
them at all — it was as if instinct and chance alone had 
put them together. 
The three struck a truce to cooperate until they’d 
discovered just why they’d been brought together — but 
strangely enough, after only a few months, the three had 
forgotten that they’d ever cared about that answer at 
all. They were together, they worked well together, and 
they kept receiving communal visions along the Cobweb 
— wasn’t that enough? And they had a purpose — a 
purpose that had somehow chosen them, instead of the 
other way around. Moncrief supplied the name “Moirai” 
as an explanation, almost as if prompted to do so. Faye 
still wonders if the name, and maybe even the purpose, 
wasn’t something Moncrief somehow inherited from his 
sire. There’s no telling either way; even Moncrief himself 
doesn’t seem to know for sure. 
After 10 years or so, the Moirai had to move on. They 
settled in another city across the continent, where they 
plied their trade of warnings and revelations until forced 
(or was it compelled?) to move on once more. Along 
the way, they picked up a fourth member, the enigmatic 
young Jack. Just as with Lizzie, Jack just seemed to fall into 
their laps, and just as with Lizzie, it was a comfortable fit. 
Eight years ago, Moncrief, Faye, Lizzie and Jack settled 
in the chronicle’s home city to ply their trade. They es-
tablished their haven in an old theater, and within nine 
months had delivered two prophecies to the prince. The 
prince ignored the first warning, dismissing it as Malkavian 
babble — and nine nights later, two of the city’s more 
prominent ancillae had vanished. They were last spotted 
at the airport, slavishly following in the wake of a rather 
soft-spoken Giovanni who’d convinced all Elysium that 
his desire to remain in the city was genuine. When the 
Moirai’s second warning came, the prince did his best to 
decrypt the garbled message; he succeeded in doing so, 
and was able to avert a blood feud between two of the 
city’s prominent clans before it ignited. 
A year after that, the Moirai screened their first “bi-
opic,” a short film that showcased the rather scandalous 
liasions of one of the city’s primogen. The subject took it 
badly, and suffered the harpies’ jibes for months, but the 
prince forbade any action against the standoffish Malka-
vian brood. The elders decided that the film was in rather 
less poor taste than its subject material, and agreed that 
the Moirai were too potentially useful to punish for…
well, for doing what everyone knows Malkavians do. 
Since then, the Moirai have continued to offer the 
occasional dire warning or scandalous report, usually to 
mixed reception. They also added a member three years 
back, a youngster named Garcia with a heady amount of 
vision. They continue to watch the rest of the city very, 
very closely, and there seems to be little that escapes 
their prying or revelatory visions. Nobody is sure if the 
brood is going to move on soon, or if they’ve chosen to 
remain in the city to watch Gehenna unfold. In fact, 
not even the Moirai themselves can say for sure.  


Clanbook: Malkavian
86
Haven: The Hyde
The Hyde Theatre stands in one of the decayed sections 
of downtown, on a block that the city council keeps plan-
ning to renew and refurbish but never seems to get around 
to doing so. The brick exterior is covered with constantly 
changing gang tags, and the broken frames where movie 
posters once hung are now filled with cheap photocopied 
flyers advertising various struggling nightclub acts. Once 
it was a fine old building, but there are only vestiges of its 
former glory remaining. 
The Hyde was built in the late 1940s by a factory owner 
looking to raise his social standing by having his name 
associated with the arts. Jonathan Hyde wasn’t quite as 
wealthy as he would have liked, though, so his theater — 
designed for stage productions, not motion pictures — had 
to be rather more modest in form that he’d hoped. The 
theater did fairly well in its first few years, but more out of 
novelty value than anything else. As the ’50s came into 
full swing, the theater began losing business quickly, and 
even community theater groups found it difficult to break 
even on a production. Finally, Hyde had to sell the theater 
at a loss. The new owner decided that although the Hyde 
wasn’t quite the playhouse it tried to be, it would make a 
fine moviehouse — and with some modest refurbishments 
and a brand new movie screen, it was set to go. 
This worked out fairly well for a time, but ultimately 
the Hyde proved equally unsuited for drawing movie 
crowds. It simply wasn’t able to keep up with the newer 
movie theaters — as more and more multiscreen theaters 
began popping up, they drew more and more business away 
from the small moviehouse. The management (which had 
changed a few times since the first buyout) tried to counter 
by running foreign and “art” films that couldn’t be found 
elsewhere in town, but the public just wasn’t interested. 
Finally, the Hyde closed its doors in 1988; and apart from 
a brief but doomed effort from a well-meaning but anemic 
historical preservation society, it was largely forgotten. 
Forgotten by everyone but Emmanuel Moncrief, that is. 
Eight years ago, when Moncrief and his disciples fol-
lowed their communal vision to the city, they happened 
across the abandoned theater almost at once. It sang to 
them. Moncrief promptly bought the Hyde at a bargain 
price; its owner was only too happy to sell it off, and didn’t 
ask many questions about his new buyer. 
It proved perfect as havens go. There are few windows 
on the main floor; the entrance was bricked up long ago, 
and even if a hole were knocked in the bricks, the sunlight 
would never make it all the way down the long corridor 
(lined with broken frames for movie posters) to the ticket 
booth. There’s ample space for a vampire to sleep on the 
stage, in the projection room, in the theater seats, back-
stage, even behind the concession counter or in the ticket 
booth — the sun just isn’t a worry in most of the building. 
Moncrief and his friends welded shut all the fire exits 
but one upon taking possession of the theater, and that one 
stays locked and barred except when the Malkavians are 
entertaining guests. To get in and out, the brood commonly 
wriggles through a pair of small windows in the restrooms; 
in case of emergencies, they’ve also knocked a hole in the 
ladies’ room floor that leads below the streets. The Hyde 
doesn’t have full electrical hookups — there are one or 
two sections that are permanently blacked out — but most 
of the wiring is in good condition. More importantly, the 
sprinkler system is fully functional; Moncrief has made 
sure that the theater isn’t a total firetrap. 
There’s only one amphitheater in the entire building, 
but it’s a sizable one, with a respectable balcony and massive 
curtains that still hang along the walls. The gold paint has 
begun to flake very badly along most of the decor, but the 
red velvet curtains lining the walls are more or less intact 
(if mildewed and dusty). The seats are old, but not entirely 
uncomfortable; the leg room is a little tight, but undead 
legs don’t cramp. The old stage is somewhat battered, and 
creaks audibly whenever someone walks across it; on the 
other hand, the Moirai have kept the lighting well main-
tained, with even a few functional spotlights up high. The 
picture screen stretches across the stage’s midpoint of the 
old stage; it’s torn in several places, but is still servicable. 
Backstage is off-limits, even when the Moirai are en-
tertaining guests. Only close personal friends are allowed 
backstage, and the Witnesses have precious few of those. 
Faye and Lizzie sleep in one of the backstage wings, sur-
rounded by the leftover clutter of half a dozen previous 
owners. In particular, Lizzie has gathered a collection of 
mannequins and dressed them in the old stage costumes 
she found stored away in the Hyde’s recesses. But for some 
reason, her sense of interior design is very…disquieting. The 
mannequins seem to be in a sensible enough arrangement, 
but visitors slowly start to sense that the dummies’ angles 
and facing are somehow…wrong, somehow unwholesome 
by just a few degrees. Slowly, subtly, the mannequins’ blank 
stares engender a sense of claustrophobia, even paranoia. 
For their part, Lizzie and Faye don’t seem to mind at all. 
But anyone that Lizzie lures back to the heaped pile of 
old velvet in one corner for some “play” is likely to leave 
the building feeling rather haunted, and might suffer from 
night terrors for some time thereafter. 
The projection room is where Jack sleeps away his days; 
it’s a litter of film cans and ragged paperbacks, as much like 
a rat’s nest as any Nosferatu haven might be. A battered 
and jury-rigged — but functional — projector sits in the 
center of the room; Jack isn’t satisfied with “art” projects 
alone, and enjoys running the occasional mass-market 


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
87
movie in the theater. His collection leaves something to 
be desired, and is missing a few reels from several films — 
but the brood doesn’t mind much, as they’re not really 
inclined to spend all their time watching movies anyway. 
Moncrief takes his repose in one of the tiny offices 
neatly hidden within the theater’s winding back passages. 
Almost all of the offices are crammed with mildewed 
crates and props used for prior “projects,” but several 
very real weapons — swords, axes, sharpened staves, a 
genuine steel scythe and even a grenade or two — are 
hidden amidst the debris. Moncrief’s “bedroom” is fairly 
cluttered as well, but has a desk clean enough for work, 
and a section of floor behind the desk that’s clear enough 
to stretch out for the night. Moncrief maintains a small 
apartment across the street where he can shower, do 
laundry and entertain guests (i.e., feed) as necessary, but 
he prefers to keep his haven nicely secure. 
And for his part, Garcia has yet to stake out any 
particular area of the Hyde as distinctly his own. He 
usually throws his sleeping bag either behind the small 
concessions counter, or between rows of seats on the 
balcony. It’s really all the same to him. 
As security measures go, the Hyde has the afore-
mentioned welded and bricked-up doors, as well as the 
variety of potential weapons stashed throughout. At any 
given time, there are certainly one or two other defen-
sive measures in place — but those change constantly, 
depending on the brood’s whim. The Moirai might string 
up lengths of carefully maintained razorwire just below 
the access windows during the day. There might be hu-
man or animal ghouls on patrol. It’s even possible that 
Moncrief has picked up one of the Gnawed, or some sort 
of szlatcha to act as a watchdog. It’s this added element of 
unpredictability that makes the Hyde — like any Mal-
kavian’s haven — dangerous ground for the uninvited. 
Influence
The Moirai’s influence over human society doesn’t 
extend much further than the influence each individual 
brood member commands. They have a few contacts 
that keep the electricity and water running to the Hyde, 
and a couple of cops in their pockets to keep an eye 
on the block. Apart from these bare necessities, the 
Moirai don’t tend to dabble overmuch in the human 
power structure — it’s just not a great concern to them. 
Of course, the brood’s influence is much greater 
when it comes to Kindred society. Despite their rather 
tangential relation to the prince and to Elysium, the 
Moirai enjoy a fairly generous helping of status among 
the vampires of the city. They’re something like harpies, 
something like oracles and something like a Greek 
chorus — their role is providing information and criti-
cism about outside threats and internal affairs alike. Of 
course, they offer their “counsel” at their own discretion, 
and that discretion is governed by their own twisted 
logic — other Kindred would be well advised to refrain 
from actually relying on their help. 
Like many other Malkavians, the Moirai are notable 
for dragging other vampires’ secrets out into the light, 
as well as doing the requisite amount of soothsaying. 
However, they’ve gained a reputation as a coterie be-
cause they deliver their oracular pronouncements and 
“muckraking” efforts in a collaborative form. If one 
of the brood has something to tell the local Kindred, 
the others tag along to add their voices. What they’re 
particularly renowned for, though, is their habit of 
creating “film projects.”
The Moirai “studio” doesn’t create a film frequently, 
as it’s a fairly involved process; although they can throw 
together a presentation in a few nights, they prefer to 
work on their projects over time. The films themselves 
can be as simple as a lone narrator — such as another 
vampire’s prize contact — alone in a bare room, or 
they can be surreal pieces of nastiness, drenched in 
cryptography and symbolism. However, the Malkavians 
themselves don’t have much control over what form a 
film’s going to take, or so they’ve claimed. Apparently, 
the subject matter and “style” of a project comes on 
the brood in the form of a shared vision, a vision that 
they’re bound to follow — or else be set upon by their 
own nightmares and obsessions. 
When the Moirai have another “show piece” ready 
for consumption, they add a flyer of their own to the 
other flyers stapled to the front of the building. The 
flyers announcing a new Moirai production are as cheap-
looking as all the other handbills surrounding them, and 
they’re phrased in veiled language. They do, however, 
usually refer to a movie house in town and a reference 
to the vampire who’s going to rent the place out to host 
a “private party.” The host always has something to do 
with the latest work’s subject (and he might even be 
the focal point of the satire), and so far, the host has 
always agreed to foot the bill for the showing. Failure 
to do so would imply that he has something to hide, of 
course; worse, refusal to participate would draw the ire 
of a Malkavian coterie, which could have very nasty 
long-term effects.
The Moirai productions aren’t all that common; 
there’s typically one every six months or so, although 
they can come closer together if the Malkavians have 
something in particular to say. What’s more, sometimes 
the brood shows up as a whole and delivers its latest 
pronouncements in person — sometimes the old ways 
are best or most convenient. 


Clanbook: Malkavian
88
But although the Moirai enjoy a healthy amount of 
influence, their power is far from absolute. Every edict, 
augury or spilled secret runs the risk of wearing out the 
city elders’ patience — potentially lethally. It’s a very fine 
line the Witnesses walk, which has ensured that they 
speak only when they can’t hold their tongues any longer. 
The Vampires
The five Malkavians who’ve been drawn together are 
about as tightly knit as you could reasonably expect. Their 
bonds are largely unspoken, and not nearly as potent as 
the blood oath — but potent enough to unnerve outsid-
ers. The Witnesses are united by a common set of visions 
that pass from one to the other like a contagion, instilling 
the group with a shared need to observe — and to reveal. 
ently able to draw on a steady source of money as needed, 
through either skullduggery or previous investments. He 
isn’t particularly adept with modern technology — but 
then again, few elders are. And, of course, he seems to 
have developed an interesting taste for the short-subject 
film. Curiously enough, Moncrief denies having ever been 
to Hollywood to learn his art; he even denies studying 
under any human film expert at all. Most presume that 
this is probably an ego issue, but then again.…
The most interesting thing about Moncrief is that 
he has the acute senses of a carrion crow. Perhaps it’s 
his Malkavian insight that leads him, but Moncrief was 
reportedly present for several key points in the last cen-
tury and a half. He was present at several major battles 
of the American Civil War and both World Wars; he 
was in Lawrence, Kansas the night they buried their 
dead, and he was in Memphis the night Martin Luther 
King, Jr. died. In all cases, he was apparently nothing 
more than an observer. Those vampires who learn this 
much tend to get fairly worried, for if all this is true, 
then what has Moncrief come to observe in their city? 
Image: Moncrief almost reminds some people of 
a Mephistophelean carnival barker; although his fea-
tures aren’t particularly pointed and his dark hair isn’t 
particularly slick, he gives off a faint aura of mildly 
sadistic showmanship. He speaks in almost completely 
unaccented English, although he’s been known to adopt 
a slight casual drawl when appropriate. He distinctly 
avoids archaic clothing, preferring instead immaculate 
white suits in the latest fashionable cut, typically ac-
cented with an appropriately colorful undershirt or tie. 
His demeanor is faultlessly civil and insightful — and 
yet, he tends to leave the faint impression that he’s 
enjoying a private joke at somebody’s expense. Most 
people he deals with fervently hope it’s not at theirs. 
Roleplaying Hints: Be quiet, modest and defer-
ential as needed; you’re aware of your status, and don’t 
see any need to laud your position. You prefer simple 
euphemisms when discussing the Moirai and your work 
— “our little project,” “a minor note,” “something of 
possible interest” — you’d rather let the work speak 
for itself. Similarly, if delivering a warning in person 
rather than through a “production,” you phrase it in 
rather understated terms; if they don’t understand 
the importance of your warning, that’s their fault, not 
yours. Savor the “biopics” when you get the chance to 
make them; there’s something in you that greatly enjoys 
watching other Kindred squirm, and you see no reason 
not to indulge that portion of yourself. 
Sire: Rufino Olevarez
Nature: Bravo
Demeanor: Trickster
Emmanuel Moncrief
Background: The origins of Emmanuel Moncrief 
are rather hard to piece together — an interesting 
achievement, given that Moncrief hasn’t been a vam-
pire for so much as two whole centuries. It’s presumed 
that he was either Embraced in Europe just before 
coming to America in the mid-1800s, or that he was a 
first-generation American before his Embrace. His oc-
casional reference to “old Rufino” points to his sire being 
Rufino Olevarez, a notoriously neutral Malkavian who 
played both sides in the Sabbat-Camarilla struggles of 
the century. It’s certainly questionable whether or not 
Emmanuel Moncrief is his real name — but he’s never 
been known to use any other alias, and he certainly has 
a reputation for painfully scrupulous honesty. 
Moncrief has demonstrated the skills of an expert 
physician, an erudite scholar and a gifted poet. He’s appar-


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
89
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1830
Apparent Age: Mid to late 30s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 5, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 1, Brawl 1, Dodge 3, 
Empathy 4, Expression 5, Intimidation 4, Leadership 3, 
Malkavian Time 5, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Crafts 3, Etiquette 3, Firearms 3, Melee 2, Per-
formance 4, Security 1, Stealth 4
Knowledges: Academics 4, Finance 3, Investigation 
3, Law 3, Linguistics 5 (French, Spanish, Italian and 
German, among others), Medicine 4, Occult 2, Politics 
3, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 1, Dementation 3, 
Obfuscate 4, Presence 2
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 4, Generation 4, 
Influence 1, Resources 3, Status 3
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 6
Derangements: Schizophrenia (hallucinations), Fugue 
Willpower: 7
decades old — an ancilla, barely, but one who’s still too 
inexperienced to truly think like an elder. After all, she 
is still under her sire’s wing. 
It would be mean-spirited to hold these observers’ 
mistake against them. People do have a tendency to 
underestimate Faye.  
Faye Sharpless was born in 1886 San Francisco, 
just in time to see the fin de siecle with her own eyes. 
Although her family did their best to shelter their little 
girl from the altogether too rambunctious outside world, 
that only heightened her curiosity. As the turn of the 
century drew nearer, Faye grew more and more restless, 
dying to see how people would express their passions 
and fears at the birth of the 20th century. The day of 
New Year’s Eve, she slipped out of the house and began 
wandering the streets to see for herself. 
She never came home. Her bright-eyed face got her 
into exactly the wrong sort of party, and she realized far 
too late just why the gentleman at the door had let her 
in so readily. However, just as the twisted celebrations 
were about to reach their peak at midnight, she was 
whisked from her “companions” by another party guest, 
one who couldn’t resist this little gift from Providence. 
Emmanuel Moncrief slew Faye Sharpless just before 
the first stroke of midnight, and as the twelfth stroke 
was fading away, she had been reborn. All of the actual 
feelings and fears that had so excited Faye were gone, 
replaced by a gnawing cold with a tiny, dense core of hate. 
For the entirety of the 20th century, Faye has been 
Moncrief’s companion and silent partner in crime. Her 
sire released her from the blood oath several decades 
ago, mostly as a favor to her, but she decided that she 
Shared Visions
The Moirai’s peculiar tendency of receiving 
shared visions is what makes them as effective as 
they are. In effect, the brood shares an unusual 
bond, probably acquired by spending long amounts 
of time with one another’s dementiae. In game 
terms, whenever one of the Moirai receives a vision 
or other flash from the Cobweb, the others make 
immediate Malkavian Time rolls at -1 difficulty to 
share in the vision. 
It’s entirely possible that other all-Malkavian 
coteries or packs might develop a similar rapport, 
given time. This is entirely up to the Storyteller’s 
discretion — although admittedly, it’s not that 
likely to come up. There aren’t many troupes out 
there where all the players play Malkavians, after 
all…or at least, as far as we know. 
Faye 
Background: Every vampire more than a week past 
his Embrace knows the foolishness of trusting a first 
impression. Upon meeting a barely pubescent vampire 
like Faye, a Cainite knows better than to presume that 
she’s as young as she seems. Most Kindred who meet Faye 
spend some time watching her, observing her habits, 
and come to the conclusion that she’s probably a few 


Clanbook: Malkavian
90
had no particular emotional stake or personal goal that 
required her to make her own way. She’s participated 
in most of Moncrief’s pranks, and played several of her 
own, but not from any real sense of humor. She serves 
the Moirai out of duty, and she listens to the communal 
visions because it’s expedient. And to be honest, the 
others are quite happy this way — they don’t care for 
the thought of Faye developing powerful ambitions. 
Faye’s one of the Moirai in every sense of the word, 
but when left to her own devices, she’s a very dangerous 
creature to cross. Where Moncrief prefers to drop a fire-
cracker on an anthill to see the little things scurry, Faye 
would rather just crush the insects one by one when they 
stray too far from their territory. Her most recent show of 
honest emotion was a vicious display during the 1999 New 
Year’s Eve celebration, when old memories of the painful 
night of her Embrace filtered through. She quietly decided 
to take revenge on the revelers who’d hurt her, even if she 
had to use a substitute or two in their stead. The police 
closed the case after three months of fruitless investigation. 
Image: Faye looks every inch the part of “elder’s 
toy”; she dresses as others would expect Emmanuel to 
dress her, and she maintains the look of the consumptive 
waif to perfection. Her dark hair was cut shoulder-length 
when she was Embraced, and she wears it in appropri-
ately youthful-seeming coifs; a pageboy bob one night, 
or a cutely rumpled bird’s nest the next. During the 
Moirai’s “public appearances,” she tends to stay close 
to Moncrief, often with one of his long-fingered hands 
resting paternally (or possessively) on her shoulder. She 
is noticeably gaunt, and her collarbones show through 
her almost translucent flesh in a way that many Kindred 
find quite enticing. She remains expressionless and quiet 
in public, smiling coquettishly only when her Emmanuel 
is openly delighted. When on a private errand or hunt, 
however, she lets a very adult glee show through just 
before she takes what she wants. 
Roleplaying Hints: The party is long over, and 
you’ve been left to pick at the remnants of the banquet 
table with the rest of the rats. But there’s no longer 
enough to go around, and you’ll be damned if you let 
a bunch of rats take whatever they like. That’s all they 
are, really — rats. And sometimes you have to run their 
warrens and mazes with them, and curtsey to their rat 
kings, and smile just a little so they won’t all come after 
you at once. But they’re rats — just rats. And you’ll kill 
a rat if you get the chance. The only exception is your 
small circle, the Moirai — who are rats just like every-
one else (but you), but they’re your rats. You’ll protect 
them from the others. So long as they don’t bite you. 
Sire: Emmanuel Moncrief
Nature: Monster
Demeanor: Child
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1900
Apparent Age: 12 or 13
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 5, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Dodge 
4, Expression 3, Intimidation 4, Malkavian Time 4, 
Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 3
Skills: Crafts 2, Etiquette 2, Firearms 3, Melee 4 (knife), 
Performance 3, Security 2, Stealth 5, Survival 3
Knowledges: Academics 1, Investigation 3, Law 1, 
Lingustics 1 (French), Medicine 2, Occult 1, Science 1
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 2, Dementation 3, 
Fortitude 1, Potence 1, Obfuscate 4
Backgrounds: Generation 3, Herd 1, Mentor 3, Status 2
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 3, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 4 
Derangements: Desensitization
Willpower: 8
Lizzie
Background: Not all Malkavians are Embraced to 
serve a greater purpose. Not all Malkavians are brought 
over from spite or desire or even pity. Sometimes, the 
only culprit is proximity.
Elizabeth Ann Morrow grew up all over the United 
States, the daughter of a career military man. Her father 
was distant and unmovable; her mother was meek and 
unambitious; if not for her brother David, she probably 
wouldn’t have laughed very much at all. Even so, the 


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
91
constant moving from place to place and from school to 
school took a gradual toll on her childhood. She could 
have been worn down long before her time, but neither 
her father nor her brother let her give up so easily. 
Like most of the country, Lizzie wasn’t ready for 
Vietnam. She wasn’t ready for David to enter the service 
just like their father wanted. She wasn’t ready for her 
brother to be shipped off to ‘Nam. And the night that 
her father called back home with the news that David 
had been killed, Lizzie shattered.  
Lizzie can’t remember all the details of what hap-
pened next; all she knows is that she ran away from 
home the night she received the news, and that she 
wasn’t even close to prepared for life on the road. She 
remembers truck stops, and hitchhiking, and flashes 
of pain and sorrow — but very little else. She doesn’t 
remember much of the stranger that began obsessively 
following her, no matter how quickly she tried to get 
away. And she remembers only a little of the shabby 
motel 20 miles outside Austin, where she was drained 
dry and yanked across to the other side. 
Even in her wretched state, Lizzie managed to master 
most of the basics of being a vampire — and a Malkavian. 
Although she never regained full lucidity, these days 
she’s more or less in control of herself. Her time with 
the Moirai has strengthened her self-esteem a little, 
although she remains very vulnerable emotionally, and 
has a bad tendency of fixating on other people she meets 
for support. The other Moirai tend to be protective of her 
for this very reason; the thought of emotionally starved 
Lizzie in the thrall of the blood oath is all too chilling.
As one of the Moirai, Lizzie has had ample op-
portunity to sharpen her acting skills, even though a 
Moirai production is much more like performance art 
than drama. She receives visions as readily as any other 
Moirai, and her ability to put other people at ease is 
very useful for drawing out information.
What’s more, Lizzie is the one usually given the task 
of bringing back food to the haven; it’s relative child’s 
play for her to convince drunken partygoers to sneak into 
the old theater for kicks. Her power of Dominate also 
makes her the designated one to make the prey forget 
exactly what happened in the theater — she’s fond of 
implanting memories of gigantic rats with sharp teeth. 
Her skill at luring in prey for her friends has earned her 
the nickname of “our little fishhook,” at least from Jack. 
For her part, she thinks that’s pretty funny.
Image: Lizzie is a charmer. Her features are so re-
markably expressive that when she smiles, people fall in 
love, and when she weeps, people would do anything to 
make her feel better. She has the remarkable gift of be-
ing completely, empathically convincing; when she pays 
attention to a companion, he feels like he’s the most 
important thing in the universe. When she doesn’t want 
to do something and says so, listeners are convinced 
that the task must surely be anathema. 
For all these reasons, it’s no wonder that no two 
people see precisely the same girl when they look at 
Lizzie. Most can agree on her frizzled brown hair — save 
when she’s ironed and/or dyed it for the clubs — or on 
her petite frame — save when she’s angry, and seems 
to gain several inches. Her eyes are just the right shade 
of hazel that they can seem blue, green, gray or even 
light brown, depending on what the viewer’s expecting. 
Roleplaying Hints: You are genuinely, honestly, 
sincere in your emotions. You can’t really feign happiness 
or sadness; that’s just not in your nature. Of course, you 
use your emotions instead of being led around by them, 
but you really, truly mean it when you say you’re sorry 
or you’re delighted. That’s why you’re so convincing. 
This can be very disconcerting, particularly since you 
can be something of an emotional chameleon at times 
— if one of your friends is depressed, you pick up their 
depression all too easily. You’re starved for emotional 
connection, constantly hoping to make a special bond 
with someone who will always be there for you. Your 
brood is wonderful, but you still want…more. 
Sire: Mourning Ivan
Nature: Conformist
Demeanor: Celebrant/Martyr
Generation: 12th
Embrace: 1970
Apparent Age: Anywhere from a mature 14 to a 
youthful 35
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 5, Appearance 4
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 1, Dodge 2, Empathy 3, Expression 
3, Intimidation 1, Malkavian Time 3, Streetwise 3, 
Subterfuge 4
Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 2, Firearms 1, Performance 
4, Stealth 4
Knowledges: Academics 2, Computer 1, Lingustics 2 
(French, Spanish), Politics 2, Science 1
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Dementation 2, Dominate 3, 
Obfuscate 1
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 4, Generation 1, Herd 
3, Resources 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Derangements: Manic-Depression
Willpower: 6


Clanbook: Malkavian
92
Jack
Background: Jack’s human life isn’t open for dis-
cussion. Even his broodmates don’t know much about 
the person he used to be before he was “brought over.” 
Whenever his broodmates have pressed the subject, 
he blows off the question with a curt reply about being 
“born dead, and killed again.” Whenever outsiders try 
to get too inquisitive, they get nothing but a sullen 
stare. He’s never shared his last name, or details of his 
sire — he simply showed up on Moncrief’s doorstep one 
night, claiming to have heard a Call. As it so happened, 
Moncrief, Lizzie and Faye had all heard something close 
to the Call — only without words — for the three nights 
previous. So they took Jack in, assuming that that’s what 
was meant to happen. 
Despite Jack’s secrecy, there are a few things that 
Moncrief has pieced together about the youngster’s past. 
Jack was apparently Embraced fairly recently, but he’s 
shown such resistance to Dominate attempts that he’s 
clearly of potent blood. Jack must have received the 
basic education about vampirism, because he knew to 
call himself “Malkavian” long before he met the rest of 
the brood, and he takes to the Moirai’s double business 
of visions and pranking as though he’d been trained for 
it. Jack’s occasional fugue states make Faye and Moncrief 
wonder if Jack doesn’t have some sort of ongoing con-
nection to his sire — in fact, they’re starting to wonder 
just how much of Jack’s knowledge is taught and how 
much is being implanted into his head from an outside 
source. It’s a paranoid theory, of course — but among 
the clan, it’s all too possible.
The most disturbing thing about Jack isn’t something 
that’s visible, though: Jack has no particular ambitions 
at all beyond survival. This might seem almost harmless 
next to the megalomaniacs or obsessed killers of the 
clan — but since Jack isn’t motivated by anything but 
stubbornness, there’s really nothing that’s completely 
beneath him. He’ll set up someone for Faye to murder 
if she asks, or he’ll blow an asshole away himself if need 
be — after all, what does it matter? At first, Moncrief 
saw Jack’s lack of goals as a positive aspect, something 
that would make Jack easily molded into the perfect 
Moirai. Now Moncrief isn’t so sure, and he finds himself 
wondering if Jack’s an explosion waiting to happen. 
Image: Jack has a common face to match his common 
name. He looks very much the part of any older vampire’s 
idea of “young rebel” — leather and denim clothing, slightly 
spiky hair, the odd piercing and so on. If you’re being honest 
about it, his look is rather early ’90s, but that’s not usually 
cause for comment. However, his features and demeanor 
are so unassuming that most Kindred tend to assume that 
he’s the Moirai’s ghoul manservant, if given somewhat freer 
rein than most ghouls enjoy. It’s very easy to see Jack as a 
rebel without a cause or even much backbone for rebel-
lion — which is how he likes it. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’re a greedy bastard, al-
though it’s not something you admit to yourself. Really, 
you’re just trying to get by. That’s all there is any more, 
right? You do what’s expected of you — you help keep 
all the electronics running, you work the cameras and 
sound, and you generally contribute modern technologi-
cal know-how where Moncrief and his pet tend to get 
weak. You like to think of yourself as pretty normal as 
vampires go, but that’s just a façade for what you really 
know, deep down — that there’s nothing normal about 
vampirism, and that you’re a monster whose strings are 
being pulled by some unknown force. It’s an unpleasant 
thought, and that’s why you don’t think about it. Really, 
you don’t think about a lot of things. You just act on 
whatever seems to work best at the time. Sometimes 
that gets messy, but…well, hey. Them’s the breaks. 
Sire: Unknown
Nature: Rogue
Demeanor: Conformist
Generation: 8th
Embrace: Unknown; presumably within the last 15 years
Apparent Age: 18
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 4, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 1, Athletics 2, Dodge 1, Expression 
2, Malkavian Time 4, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 3


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
93
Skills: Crafts 4 (electronics), Drive 3, Firearms 3, Melee 
1, Performance 2, Security 4, Stealth 3
Knowledges: Academics 2, Computer 2, Investigation 
2, Medicine 1, Politics 2, Science 3
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dementation 2, Obfuscate 2
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Generation 5, Resources 1
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 5
Derangements: Fugue
Willpower: 6
tion came and went at dizzying speeds, leaving him with 
piles of half-finished canvas. His father forbade him from 
wasting his time any further, and Eduardo moved across 
town in response. He kept struggling with his paintings, 
trying desperately to capture at least one of his visions 
before it fled — but to no avail. 
Maybe his obsession lit up like a beacon to the 
Malkavians — because they found him soon enough. He 
met Lizzie while he was working a night shift to make 
ends meet, and somehow he…stuck in her mind. For 
reasons that she still doesn’t quite understand, Lizzie 
Embraced him and took him home to the “family.” He 
proved remarkably tractable as young childer go, and 
was a contributing member of the brood within weeks. 
These days, Garcia — now bereft of his personal 
name — has a little more respite from the visions that used 
to haunt him. Every time the Moirai finish a project, or 
uncover a new prophecy of things to come, Garcia sleeps a 
little more easily for a few days. But the visions have been 
changing of late, and Garcia has begun waking up with 
the mephitic smell of Gehenna lingering in his mind. It’s 
only a matter of time before the pranks and prophecies stop 
being an effective release — and what will he do then? 
Image: Garcia is a fairly unremarkable young Hispan-
ic man, somewhat short and squat but not commanding 
at all. He tends to wear simple, very casual clothing, and 
favors a Buffalo Sabres baseball cap. At the base of his 
neck is a tattoo of a cross, a relic from his human life. He 
speaks softly, almost in a mumble; racist elder vampires 
are all too willing to believe that this is because he just 
doesn’t speak English all that well, but it’s really just a 
side effect of his none-too-assertive personality. 
Roleplaying Hints: It’s all very confusing, really. 
You pretty much understand what this vampirism thing 
is all about, but it’s real hard to make sense of all the 
visions you keep getting. You tend to confuse your 
broodmates with your biological family — you know you 
have a family, but they fade in and out and it’s hard to 
tell who they really are. The most persistent thing that 
nags at you is a sense of foreboding, but you just can’t 
put your finger on it. It makes you nervous, and you 
don’t like to talk about it. Nobody would understand, 
anyway. They never do. 
Sire: Lizzie 
Nature: Visionary
Demeanor: Fanatic
Generation: 13th
Embrace: 1997
Apparent Age: 20
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 1, Manipulation 2, Appearance 3
Garcia
Background: Garcia is the latest addition to the 
Moirai, and in many ways he’s the one who still has the 
most to lose. Unlike his broodmates, Garcia still has 
living family members, right in the city, and he’s also 
kept his emotional attachments to them. He’s the most 
human of a brood that’s mercilessly driven to interfere 
in vampiric affairs. Worst of all, he can half-see his own 
fate — and he wishes he couldn’t.  
Eduardo Antenio Garcia had a fairly fortunate 
upbringing; his father owned a successful real-estate 
business and was readily able to provide for his large 
family. Although Eduardo’s father was a disciplinarian, 
the responsibilities he demanded of his children were 
less crushing when there were six children to bear them 
all. Eduardo fell between the cracks, retreating into his 
own imagination while his siblings did their best to live 
up to their father’s demands. And in an attempt to make 
the most of his imagination, he turned to painting. 
Unfortunately, Eduardo’s craft never caught up with 
his talent. No matter how hard he tried, he never managed 
to work a painting until it was just right — his inspira-


Clanbook: Malkavian
94
Power Players
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 2, Wits 4
Talents: Alertness 2, Athletics 1, Brawl 1, Empathy 1, 
Expression 4, Malkavian Time 5, Streetwise 1
Skills: Animal Ken 2, Crafts 2, Drive 2, Firearms 1, 
Stealth 2
Knowledges: Academics 1, Computer 1, Lingustics 1 
(Spanish), Medicine 2, Politics 1, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 4, Obfuscate 1
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 2, Resources 1, Status 2
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 2
Morality: Humanity 8
Derangements: Memory Lapses
Willpower: 6
Using the Moirai
Although the Moirai have been presented here 
as fitting into a Camarilla city, there’s no reason they 
can’t be adapted to serve as a Sabbat pack of advisors to 
the archbishop. The Malkavian antitribu are somewhat 
infamous for creating their own tribal packs, and in this 
case it would be fairly easy to assume that the archbishop 
tolerates the Moirai because they prove useful. 
One of the Moirai’s primary uses is as blackmailers or 
brokers in secrets; like a Greek chorus, they can pop up at 
the beginning of a story with a warning for one or more 
characters. They might also pass on an elder’s secret to the 
characters, either out of necessity or curiosity. In either case, 
they’re much more likely to appear when they’re unasked for; 
they see it as their role to drag out the tidbits that nobody’s 
talking about. Although individual Moirai might make 
good allies or contacts for the characters, the Witnesses as 
a group refuse to dispense information at another vampire’s 
beck and call. They answer to a higher authority. 
Malkavian characters have several more options 
open to them; any one of the brood might be a char-
acter’s sire, or perhaps a “sibling” with a common sire. 
Lunatics with sufficiently high ratings in Malkavian 
Time might even be considered as potential candidates 
for joining the Moirai. However, as the Moirai are 
more loyal to one another than they are to outsiders, a 
character probably couldn’t maintain strong ties to the 
other players’ characters. Unlife among the Witnesses is 
a very demanding existence, and a player’s Malkavian 
might be better off refusing such an offer. Politely. 
Of course, the Moirai act as a frightening collective 
from time to time — but they are individuals, and they 
aren’t soulless. Any one of them might make a beguiling 
romantic interest for a character — although a character 
dallying with Jack or Faye will probably have a much 
more interesting (and dangerous) time of it. Lizzie in 
particular has a hunger for attention during her manic 
cycles, and is very receptive to solace and comfort on 
her downswing. This might stir up an interesting series 
of relationships with the rest of the brood, however; 
what if another Moirai becomes jealous, or doesn’t think 
that the character deserves an “in” with the Witnesses? 
In any event, such a romantic relationship won’t 
protect a player character from being the subject of a 
biopic “project” or warning if the Moirai decide that he’s 
in need; no matter how strong the personal relationship, 
it’s impossible to convince these vampires that what 
they’re doing isn’t good for all concerned. 
On the subject of romantic subplots, it’s also possible 
that one of the Moirai could become a romantic rival for 
a character. And there’s no telling how this rivalry might 
manifest itself; Malkavians are capable of great subtlety, 
and the denizens of the Hyde are no different. If Jack 
or Faye starts stalking a character’s paramour, they’re 
not likely to leave simple, pasted-together “Stay Away” 
messages for the character’s benefit — they’re more likely 
to arrange small incidents or accidents while the couple 
are together. The whole idea is to make the “interloper” 
unconsciously associate their paramour with bad luck and 
strange happenings, eventually driving the two apart. If 
the character doesn’t get the message, then the stalker 
will take things to the next level — as creatively or even 
gruesomely as the Storyteller sees fit. 
Dawn Nakada, Archon
Background: Dawn was just a girl when her parents 
were sent to an internment camp for the crime of being 
Japanese-American during World War II. She hit puberty 


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
95
while in the camp, unfortunately attracting the eye of a less-
than-dutiful guard in the process. When she disappeared 
from the camp two months later, her family blamed the 
camp officials, even petitioning after the end of the war to 
have the culprit brought to justice. The guard in question 
was eventually tried and quietly sentenced. Nobody ever 
guessed that he had been an unwitting blind for Dawn’s 
true abductor, the vampire Julius Abrogard. 
Dawn was reeducated at her sire’s knee in the art of 
acting, etiquette and manipulation; he was planning to 
visit Japan once the war was over, and wanted to use her 
as another potential blind. Unfortunately, his plans never 
had a chance to materialize; while he was on another 
recruitment trip to San Francisco, a Tremere rival slew 
Abrogard by sorcery and quickly covered up the evidence. 
Dawn was left waiting in Abrogard’s haven, but not for 
long; when he failed to return after three days, she decided 
to put her newfound skills to work for herself.
Although Dawn’s ethnicity was a drawback in mov-
ing freely through postwar America, it was nothing that 
a little Obfuscate couldn’t handle. By being bold where 
others were timid and cautious where others were over-
confident, she managed to neatly acquire a respectable 
network of contacts and favors along the West Coast. 
Each time the call for another clan meeting came, she 
found herself recognizing more and more of the luminar-
ies in attendance. It was at one of these gatherings that 
she met Maris Streck, who was quite impressed with 
the savvy and well-connected youngling. The two got 
on exceptionally well, and Dawn was glad to broaden 
Streck’s information network out to the Western US. 
When Streck made her bid for power and won the 
seat of Malkavian Justicar, she naturally chose Dawn 
to be one of the first among her new brood of archons. 
In the circles that even know of her as archon, Dawn 
is infamous (and hated) as “Streck’s pet.” She is the 
justicar’s eyes and ears in the western half of the United 
States, and, if necessary, could draw considerably more 
charity from Maris than any other erring archon might. 
Nowadays, Dawn travels from city to city much as 
she used to, although this time it’s often on the justicar’s 
business. She has found that she is easily underestimated 
in these times; few elder vampires are used to seeing 
Asian-Americans in any great numbers, and most as-
sume that she must have been Embraced fairly recently. 
Dawn never corrects them — at least, not until she must 
reveal her true rank and purpose.  
While not particularly deadly in a straight-up brawl, 
the ancilla-cum-archon is remarkably lethal when it 
comes to pulling strings and arranging “accidents.” She’s 
not without physical protection, either; although they’re 
never conspicuous, her bodyguards are never far from her. 
Both are ex-CIA, and have been Dawn’s ghouls for 20 
years. Needless to say, they are accordingly deadly; the two 
of them are well-armed and well-trained enough to drop 
almost any three ancillae who started giving their mistress 
trouble. In all, Dawn Nakada is exceptional trouble for 
any city or prince that requires her attention — and woe 
unto the vampire or mortal who actually gets away with 
injuring her, for should Maris Streck find out…well, the 
result would be stickily unpleasant. 
Image: Dawn is a small, slender Japanese-American 
girl, apparently plucked just before coming into full 
bloom. She fastidiously keeps up with and wears the 
latest teen fashions, all the better to promote her im-
age of “Embraced just six months ago.” Her movements 
are calculated to project the perfect impression of an 
overconfident teenager; the only hint to her true nature 
is at the moment she reveals she has her target over a 
barrel, when her eyes flash with a glittering, cold wisdom.
Roleplaying Hints: Never let on all that you know. 
Pepper your speech with teen slang, but speak nervously 
and politely when in the company of other Kindred, as 
though you’re trying to impress them. Be the very picture 
of the neonate in over your head until the time comes. 
And if anyone finds out just who and what you are, use 
their knowledge of your position and your clan to best 
advantage. Most Kindred are terrified of the thought of 
a Malkavian with real power — and well they should be. 
Sire: Julius Abrogard
Nature: Conniver
Demeanor: Thrill-Seeker
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1943
Apparent Age: 14
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 5, Appearance 3
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 4, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 3, Dodge 3, Empathy 2, Intimidation 
2, Streetwise 4, Subterfuge 5
Skills: Drive 2, Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, Melee 1, Stealth 4
Knowledges: Academics 2, Investigation 5, Law 3, 
Lingustics 3 (Japanese, English, Spanish, Cantonese, 
German), Medicine 1, Occult 1, Politics 4, Science 1
Disciplines: Auspex 4, Dementation 3, Dominate 2, 
Obfuscate 4
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 4, Generation 3, Men-
tor 5 (Maris Streck), Resources 3, Retainers 2, Status 4
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 5, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 6
Derangements: Disassociative Blood-Spending
Willpower: 7


Clanbook: Malkavian
96
Alessio Rinaldi, the 
Peacock Prince 
Background: The prince of Ravenna is not what one 
would expect, were one to come on him while he was 
unawares. He seems a meek, frail but beautiful creature, 
so gentle that one might wonder if he weeps when he 
feeds on blood. His form is well-kept, and he dresses well 
enough, but he hardly projects the aura of command and 
strength that one would associate with a prince. 
But the mask… ah, the mask. The mask is a very 
different creature. 
When Alessio dons the porcelain mask that he calls 
“the Peacock’s face,” his personality shifts dramatically. 
His reticent personality gives way to quiet arrogance; 
his twinges of compassion vanish in a low, pulsating 
bloodlust. His bearing becomes kingly and aristocratic 
enough to please even the oldest Old World Ventrue. 
Where Alessio is timid and unsure, the Peacock is the 
very picture of the vampiric prince: elegant, decadent, 
incisive and commanding. The Peacock’s parties are 
the talk of all Italy, as is his management of his do-
main; few would have expected one so young to excel 
at the art of princedom. He has been prince for only 
30 years, ever since the previous prince vanished on a 
fool’s errand hunting rumors of the Inconnu, naming 
Alessio his successor. Very few knew who this “Alessio” 
person was; but when the Peacock Prince ascended to 
the throne, they noticed. He has proven remarkably 
resistant to outside influence (a fact that most attribute 
to his clan), his charm is unmistakable, and his allies 
are quite loyal. A few have subtly tried to overthrow 
him during his reign, but to date every effort has ended 
in a very public duel in full view of all the court. The 
Peacock Prince has won each one. 
The most cruel twist of all, however, is that Ales-
sio lives in fear of the night when the Peacock’s thirst 
for blood overcomes him during a revel. For should 
the Peacock unmask to drink, then Alessio will be 
left naked and helpless before all the court, victim to 
whatever sport they devise. The thought is enough to 
give Alessio terrible nightmares during each day’s rest, 
and he often wakes with bloody tears streaked across 
his alabaster cheeks. But no matter how terrible his 
fears get, he nonetheless raises the mask to his face with 
trembling hands each night. 
Image: Alessio is a remarkably beautiful young 
man, with shoulder-length hair and a complexion to 
rival the Peacock’s porcelain mask (which is painted 
with a pattern of peacock feathers about one eye and 
across one cheek). When not holding court he dresses 
simply and comfortably, usually in well-worn casual 
clothes. As the Peacock, alas, he cannot display his 
perfect features; however, he atones for this by wear-
ing only the finest and most stylish clothing, whether 
painstaking recreations of 17th-century court dress or 
immaculate, tailored pinstripe suits. The exception is 
during a duel, when the Peacock gladly strips to the 
waist —all the better that his opponent’s blood might 
be honored enough to fall on his painstakingly sculpted 
physique. Blood on the finest marble — how exquisite.
Roleplaying Hints: As Alessio, you are humble and 
tentative, and surprisingly empathic; you exude a vulner-
able charm that is quite winning. As the Peacock, you 
are arrogant, vain and bloodthirsty, and yet exquisitely 
refined at the same time. You strive to be the perfect host, 
always entertaining to your guests and magnanimous to 
your foes — until they irritate you, of course. You thrill 
to prove your superior skill against inferior opponents, 
whether through swordplay or political maneuvering; 
in all likelihood, you would be rather less enthusiastic 
about a fair fight. Fortunately, you have yet to find one.
[Note: The information given after the slashes 
represent the Peacock’s Traits. Obviously, Alessio’s 
derangement has made his perceived dependence on 
the mask all too real.]
Sire: Lyra
Nature: Conniver/Autocrat
Demeanor: Conformist/Bon Vivant
Generation: 8th
Embrace: 1788
Apparent Age: early 20s
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 4/5, Stamina 4
Social: Charisma 2/5, Manipulation 4/5, Appearance 5


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
97
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3/4, Wits 2/5
Talents: Alertness 3, Athletics 2/4, Dodge 2/5, Empathy 
4/1, Expression 1/3, Intimidation 1/4, Leadership 3/5, 
Malkavian Time 2, Subterfuge 4
Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 3/5, Melee 2/5, Performance 
1/4, Stealth 3
Knowledges: Academics 4, Finance 2, Law 2, 
Linguistics 3 (English, Latin, French, Greek), Politics 
2/4, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 4, Dementation 1, 
Obfuscate 2, Presence 2/4
Backgrounds: Allies 4, Contacts 5, Generation 4, 
Resources 4, Retainers 1, Status 5
Virtues: Conscience 3/1, Self-Control 2/4, Courage 2/5
Morality: Humanity 7/Humanity 4
Derangements: Multiple Personalities, Power-Object 
Fixation
Willpower: 4/9
universities offered him quite generous scholarships, but 
ultimately he chose no single one; instead, he chose to 
spread his higher education out over a number of schools, 
including study abroad. 
When the First World War erupted, Dr. Netchurch 
chose to leave his Boston practice and return to Europe, 
assisting the local hospitals in the treatment of fallen 
soldiers as best he could. He came to know the diseases 
and infections of the filthy trenches firsthand, as well 
as the horrors of chemical warfare — and he never so 
much as flinched. 
It was there that he was drawn into the orbit of 
Trimeggian, a powerful Malkavian and fellow scholar of 
the medical arts. Trimeggian, who had been drawn to the 
Great War out of curiosity, was quite impressed by the 
resolve and insight of the American doctor. It seemed only 
natural that such a prodigy of modern medicine would 
prove most useful in applying the cutting edge of medi-
cal science to analyze the human and Kindred condition 
alike. And he was not disappointed — his childe rose to 
the occasion with all the dedication and rationality one 
would expect from a Netchurch.
Today Dr. Netchurch operates a covert (but quite 
professional, mind) facility in the Raleigh-Durham Re-
search Triangle area, where he turns “research grants” of 
blood, money and volunteers into highly credible findings 
about vitae, ghouling, revenants and many other subjects 
of interest. He is primarily assisted by his childe, Dr. Nancy 
Reage, a brilliant psychologist whose fixation with her sire 
and former domitor survived — and was even strength-
ened — by her Embrace. Netchurch is apparently quite 
unaware of her amorous obsession; then again, perhaps he 
knows and has simply classified it as an understandable and 
nonproblematic behavioral pattern. Whatever the case, 
her bedside manner is certainly more…generous than his 
own: yet another asset which makes her invaluable.
Image: Dr. Netchurch is an impeccably groomed 
man with short-cut ash-blond hair and round glasses 
(which, given his superior Auspex, are certainly an 
affectation or obsessive habit). He moves briskly and 
efficiently, and speaks in a level, measured tone at all 
times; deliberate attempts to rattle him are met with 
subtle, icy condescension. Within the confines of his 
laboratory (where he feels most at home) he dresses 
like the scientist he is; when forced by circumstance 
to leave, he wears a suit that’s perfectly immaculate, if 
slightly out of fashion.
Roleplaying Hints: You are consumed with a drive to 
understand the Kindred condition in all its permutations. 
Unfortunately, it seems unlikely that you’ll achieve this 
goal any time soon, but you do have all the time in the 
world. You are decidedly contemptuous of the more “occult” 
Dr. Douglas Netchurch
Background: Some might find it odd that the fore-
most expert in the field of Kindred pathology, hemotology 
and neobiology is in fact a Malkavian. Those regrettably 
unlearned souls have obviously never met Dr. Netchurch. 
Although the madness of his clan certainly grips his 
mind, the good doctor’s scientific genius is unmistakable. 
Douglas Netchurch was born before the turn of the 
century, to an affluent New England family with a long 
history in the medical profession. Although his older 
brother was something of a disappointment to the family, 
Douglas turned out to be everything they could have asked 
for, easily flying through school with top marks. Several 


Clanbook: Malkavian
98
beliefs of your fellow Kindred, and patently don’t believe in 
Gehenna; even your connection to the Network is vestigial. 
However, although you consider Thaumaturgy, Noddism 
and the like superstitious bunk, you have enough tact not 
to mention your feelings in front of others. Be reserved, 
speak only when you have something that needs saying, and 
keep clear of politics as much as you can; ultimately, only 
the pursuit of scientific understanding of the preternatural 
matters, and everything else is a distraction. 
Sire: Trimeggian
Nature: Visionary
Demeanor: Director
Generation: 7th
Embrace: 1915
Apparent Age: 30s
Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3
Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 5, Wits 3
Talents: Alertness 5, Dodge 2, Empathy 2, Expres-
sion 2, Intimidation 4 (bloodless stare), Leadership 2, 
Subterfuge 3
Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 2, Firearms 1, Security 2, 
Stealth 2
Knowledges: Academics 4, Computer 1, Investigation 
4, Law 2, Linguistics 4 (Latin, Greek, Spanish, French, 
German, Italian), Medicine 5 (Kindred/ghoul pathol-
ogy), Science 5 (Vitae hemotology)
Disciplines: Auspex 4, Celerity 2, Dementation 1, 
Dominate 4, Fortitude 1, Obfuscate 3, Potence 1, Pres-
ence 1, Protean 1, Vicissitude 1 
[Note: Netchurch’s studies have exposed him to a great 
many bloodlines, and he has learned the basics of several 
“semi-intuitive” Disciplines in the course of his experi-
ments. Storytellers might want to grant him a dot in 
any other semi-physical Discipline that he is currently 
studying; however, Netchurch classifies Thaumaturgy 
and similarly “occult” Disciplines as “mystical” in nature, 
and has neither inclination nor talent to unravel such.]
Backgrounds: Allies 1 (Dr. Reage), Contacts 3, Gen-
eration 6, Herd 3 (orderlies/test subjects), Mentor 4, 
Resources 3, Retainers 2, Status 2
Virtues: Compassion 2, Self-Control 5, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 6
Derangements: Obsessive/Compulsive
Willpower: 9
Vasantasena
It is probably not a comfortable thought to the pil-
lars of the Camarilla that Vasantasena, one of the key 
influences in the creation of both Camarilla and Sabbat, 
still walks the night. First among the Malkavian antitribu, 
prophetess of dark enlightenment, guiding sybil to the 
innermost circles of the Sabbat — she is a terrible, 
frightening figure in both myth and reality. 
Vasantasena was, as the stories tell, a princess born 
into a great Indian royal house just before the end of the 
first millennium AD. Her sire was a vagrant Malkavian, 
a holy man in life and undeath alike. The two were 
inseparable, and they came to Europe during the Inqui-
sition. There they were instrumental in the Camarilla’s 
formation, the beacon that rallied their clan behind the 
newborn sect. 
For that alone, Vasantasena would be infamous. But 
she quickly grew disenchanted with the Camarilla and its 
seeming refusal to believe the stories of the Antediluvians, 
and she and her newfound brood of anarchs moved on 
to become a cornerstone of the equally fledgling Sab-
bat. If not for her insider’s knowledge of the Camarilla’s 
formation and tactics, the Sabbat would certainly have 
taken many more hits, and might never have survived 
to modern nights. 
To this night, Vasantasena is a legend among her 
Sabbat kin. Even those who don’t know the history of her 
contributions have heard of the fiery, evangelical Malkavian 
who derides the Paths of Enlightenment as cheap, empty 
substitutes for true understanding. It’s said that her powers 
of Auspex are so great that she sees all that happens within 
the Sabbat; certainly, not even the oldest archbishop can 
remember ever surprising her in any way. She is admittedly 
obsessive on the subject of the Antediluvians, whom she 
fears greatly, but nonetheless she remains one of the most 
perceptive and insightful vampires in all the Sabbat. Al-
though the sect would certainly survive her loss, it would 
lose a great part of its spirit. 


Chapter Three: Shards of a Broken Mirror
99
Anatole
Perhaps it was mere chance; perhaps there was 
something more at work. There’s certainly ample argu-
ment for the hand of Providence — for how else could 
a poor French man-at-arms with some faith and little 
wisdom rise to become the Prophet of Gehenna?
Anatole’s last name was lost somewhere along his 
long road; all that is known for certain is that he was a 
Parisian guardsman who was taken by Pierre L’Imbecile 
in the latter half of the 12th century. His human faith in 
God and the Church somehow survived the Embrace, 
but not unchanged; the young vampire began to see 
signs and portents that, he claimed, were bestowed by 
the Father as warnings of the coming of Gehenna. (And 
whether by “the Father” he meant God or Caine, none 
could say from night to night.)
Over the course of the centuries, Anatole managed 
to win equal measures of fame and infamy. Although 
many a prince suspected him of diablerizing elders (as 
a form of “communion,” or so it was rumored), his 
prophetic warnings gained him a stay of execution. He 
kept company with similarly “dangerous” allies, among 
them the dangerous Lasombra antitribu Lucita and the 
far-ranging Noddist scholar Beckett. With their help, 
Anatole continued to wander Europe and America alike, 
often emerging on the cusp of strange and portentous 
events to offer warnings to his fellow Kindred.  
Unfortunately, the stories of most prophets end in 
martyrdom, and Anatole was no exception. During the 
Week of Nightmares, Anatole began receiving impulses 
that the time was very near, and that one last “necessary” 
thing was left to accomplish before Gehenna broke wide 
open. He followed his vision one last time to a cave 
in upstate New York, where he found a blasphemous 
sculpture of flesh and stone, pulsing with a power great 
enough to belong to an Antediluvian. The Prophet of 
Gehenna knew all too well what came next — and he 
offered himself up to the horrific sculpture, blending 
his flesh with its.
His last nights, spent fused with this strange work 
— and somehow connected to the power behind it — 
were nights of delirium more fevered than ever before. 
Whatever visions he had, whatever he saw in the hours 
he spent still half-conscious — it drove him to scrawl 
his final words across the walls of the cave, penning 
near-volumes of garbled prophecy and Gehenna lore 
in his own blood. At last, he perished utterly, his task 
complete. 
But although Anatole and his accumulated wis-
dom were lost to the Cobweb, his final ravings did not 
go unseen. Some of his writings were gathered up by 
members of his own clan; other fragments are rumored 
to be in the hands of the Setites, who no doubt are 
cross-referencing the convoluted forewarnings with their 
own clan’s Gehenna prophecies. And if synchronicity 
has had its way, a final portion of his vision might rest 
with the Salubri, or with the Tremere who succeeded 
them. But for now, nobody can say for sure. 
Fabrizia Contreraz, Sabbat 
Archbishop
She was never meant to be successful; she was 
appointed out of spite, not respect.  Nobody expected 
the mad neonate to actually be able to hold the reins 
of power. Nobody thought she’d be able to control 


Clanbook: Malkavian
100
Miami, much less orchestrate the conquest of several 
more Camarilla cities.
But those of Malkav’s line are full of surprises. 
Fabrizia was a helplessly insane prisoner in a Mexi-
can penitentary at the time of her Embrace, chosen as 
cannon fodder for a skirmish in Houston. However, 
Malkav’s blood, while still tainted with madness, gave 
her an unusual gift of lucidity. She became her sire 
Licero’s lover rather than his pawn, and the two of 
them were as infamous among the Southwest’s Kindred 
as Bonnie and Clyde. When Licero was lost in the 
Miami siege, his regent, Galbraith, blamed Fabrizia for 
being a distraction. Rather than openly work revenge 
on the youngling (which would certainly be seen as 
ludicrously petty), Galbraith instead appointed the 
distraught Fabrizia archbishop in the hopes that the 
position’s demands would destroy her. The regent was 
sorely disappointed — Fabrizia proved remarkably alert, 
exceptionally organized and meticulously patient. Ironi-
cally, Galbraith could not have asked for a better, more 
committed, more effective archbishop. 
And Fabrizia has been a vampire for only 15 years. 
Tonight, Fabrizia is more than a thorn in the side of 
the East Coast Camarilla — she is a barbed spearhead. 
She monomaniacally plots to capture more and more 
cities from the Camarilla, and has placed agents in 
several key cities in anticipation of further movements. 
Atlanta’s recent fall to the Sabbat has caused quite a 
stir in Camarilla and Sabbat circles alike, as the various 
Kindred try to figure out just how much of that conquest 
was due to Fabrizia’s planning. 
It’s tragic, really. All she ever wanted was to spend 
the rest of her nights with her beloved Licero. Now the 
East Coast will bleed for her loss. 
The Ankou
Camarilla or Sabbat, every clan has its tales of an-
cient terrors stalking the night, creatures that kill their 
grandchilder without remorse or pity. One such legend, 
at least among the Malkavians, is that of the Ankou. 
The Ankou is the Reaper itself   a thing of grave 
earth and rust, of rot and wormwood. Where its legend 
has filtered into human lore, it is depicted as a remorse-
less, lifeless monster that silently treads lightless country 
roads with ox-cart and scythe, coming upon its victims 
as suddenly as a sickness, cutting their lives from them, 
and heaving them into its cart. And it is in this form 
that it will sometimes appear in a Malkavian s dreams 
or visions, if always fleetingly. 
Those Malkavians who know of the Ankou treat its 
legends with equal parts reverence and loathing. A few 
have said that it is the first of the serial killers, or possibly 
their patron saint. The most reliable visions hint that is 
a Methuselah   not one of Malkav s direct childer, but 
a grandchilde and faithful servant to its 4th-generation 
parent (who, perhaps thankfully, remains nameless). If 
rumors can be trusted, it was birthed in the days when 
agriculture was a budding art, and was perhaps even 
slain and Embraced as a sacrifice to some earth-goddess. 
However, its duty to the earth did not end with death.
Its powers are seemingly so great that it can roam 
the back roads of Lupine territory unmolested, or even 
vanish from one place to appear miles away. It can also, 
if tales can be trusted, travel with its spectral cart invis-
ibly and intangibly through even the most bustling neon 
downtown   visible only to its victims, and even then 
only as a faint smell of corruption and a heavy blow from 
behind. Vampires, particularly Malkavians, are known 
to vanish from their hunting grounds without a trace 
all the time   but sometimes after a disappearance, the 
word drifting along the Network, repeated in neural 
whispers, is  Ankou. 


™
Incurable Derangement
Courage____________
Self-Control/Instinct______
Strength_________________
Dexterity________________
Stamina_________________
Name:
Player:
Chronicle:
Nature:
Demeanor:
Concept:
Generation:
Sire:
Haven:
Attributes
Talents
Social
Mental
Charisma_________________
Manipulation_____________
Appearance_______________
Perception_______________
Intelligence_______________
Wits___________________
Alertness_________________
Athletics________________
Brawl___________________
Dodge___________________
Empathy_________________
Expression_______________
Intimidation______________
Leadership________________
Streetwise________________
Subterfuge________________
Abilities
Physical
Skills
Knowledges
Animal Ken______________
Crafts___________________
Drive___________________
Etiquette_________________
Firearms_________________
Melee____________________
Performance_______________
Security__________________
Stealth___________________
Survival__________________
Academics________________
Computer________________
Finance__________________
Investigation______________
Law_____________________
Linguistics________________
Medicine_________________
Occult___________________
Politics___________________
Science__________________
Backgrounds
Advantages
Disciplines
Virtues
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
________________________
Conscience/Conviction
Merits/Flaws
Humanity/Path
Health
Willpower
Blood Pool
Weakness
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
__________________________
O O O O O O O O O O
Bruised
Hurt	
-1
Injured	
-1
Wounded	
-2
Mauled	
-2
Crippled	
-5
Incapacitated


™
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
Other Traits
Rituals
Experience
Blood Bonds/ Vinculi
Combat
Name 		
	
	
	
       Level
Derangements
Total:______________________________
TotalSpent:____________________________
Spent on:
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
Bound to 	 	
	
Rating
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
Weapon           	
Damage	 Range	
Rate	
Clip	
Conceal
Armor
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO
OOOOO


™
Expanded Background
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Possessions
Havens Description
Allies 
Contacts
 Fame 
Herd
 Influence
 Mentor 
Resources
 retainers
 Status 
Other
Gear (Carried)
 Equipment (Owned)
 Feeding Grounds
 Vehicles
 Location 


™
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Age_______________________________________________________________________________
History
Appearance
Visuals
Prelude
Coterie Chart
Character Sketch
Age_________________________________________________________________________________
Apparent Age______________________________________________________________________
Date of Birth________________________________________________________________________
RIP________________________________________________________________________________
Hair________________________________________________________________________________
Eyes_________________________________________________________________________________
Race________________________________________________________________________________
Nationality__________________________________________________________________________
Height___________________________________________________________________________________
Weight___________________________________________________________________________________
Sex________________________________________________________________________________


PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 1-56504-268-9
WW2353  $14.95 U.S.
W W W . W H I T E - W O L F . C O M
TM
The childer of Malkav bear two curses: undeath and madness. 
From emotionless sociopaths to raving lunatics and everything 
in between, the Malkavians nonetheless command a startling 
insight. Does what they know drive them to madness or does 
their insanity allow them to peer into a world the rest of us fear 
to see?
• A updated look at one of the core clans of the Camarilla
• An in-depth treatment of the clan’s fragmented personalities, 
including the madness network, the spread of Dementation and 
tips for Storytelling and roleplaying insanity
• Descriptions of new secrets, derangements, Discipline powers 
and lore of the clan
The childer of Malkav bear two curses: undeath and madness. 
From emotionless sociopaths to raving lunatics and everything 
in between, the Malkavians nonetheless command a startling 
insight. Does what they know drive them to madness or does 
their insanity allow them to peer into a world the rest of us fear 
to see?
• A updated look at one of the core clans of the Camarilla
• An in-depth treatment of the clan’s fragmented personalities, 
including the madness network, the spread of Dementation and 
tips for Storytelling and roleplaying insanity
• Descriptions of new secrets, derangements, Discipline powers 
and lore of the clan
