OMivion
Crectits
Writccn h. R1< h.1rJ E. L"►.m<kh Jcn111tcr H.1mh<>m .mJ J. M1,had Rutlm, lniti•I \i.aterial h, Geoff Fmner anJ  Frank Br,mham
Dnelupment h,: RILhard I. D-Jn,k)' Additional Dcvdopment by Cy111h1.1 Summer, Ediung b,: C, n1h11 '-umm "
Pre,iou<ly published material has appeared in: \X'r,mh: Tiu.- Ohl"u,nZnJ EJmun, Ma,,<.jucr• 1Jc ZnJ EJ111"n, I :t\\, ol theN1ghc ·mJ The R1·•·n
Vice Pre,ident in Charge of Production: Rich,1rJ Th,,ma, Art Oire tion b1: -\1lecn .\lilc, anJ l.1wrence Sndl1
Art hy:Jun:Hh,111 Rhea ,m<l )t"h 11,mw.;k Cov.·r Art: J,,hn L,,hb
Co,cr Desgin: L mrcnct "',ndl1
Layout and typesetting b}: M,m M,lhcrger
Mind\ Eye Theatre created by· Mark Rem•H.1 cn, Ian Lemke anJ  .\11Lc Tinnc1 World .,f Oarkne\, created b1 Mark Rem•H.11:cn
\Vh1k "" don't h.1vc room 1<> Im all,,(ourplaytntcr, by nam,•, we'd Ith·m thank them as be,1 "" n1a1 Y.1ur 11111c .ind cffurr luve b.!cn grcad1.1pprcc1ac,,J, c,pcc1alh y<>u folb111 A,hev,llc. K.m,. Cu mJ M1l\\,1ukcc (Eck! GcnC.on!)
Oi;daimer: \V, 1pon, app,:.ar m cen.un of the 1llu,1mt1t1ns an rh, lxic,k Thc,e1m.1i:c,.ire use.I fnr 1llu,1rat1ve puq'll,ses nnly, Jnd not a, cxampll'' nf.1ctual i:,unc play. UnJer nudn:um,cancc,
,houlJ weap.,n 1'C 11lo\\eJ man) game nfOblh·ion.
... anJ ,1 qm,k 1111rc of  th.mks ro J.L. W<l<xlward for hes ,1-s1'1;1nce and  rhnu hcs nn Wraith: The Obli\ion 2nd Edition.
WO l f
GAH[ STUDIO
C, 1996 \'('hue:Wolf, Inc.,\IInglu, rc,..;,rn-J. Rcrm• docc1<1n w1rhuu1 rhc wrmcn ('11:rmL,sinn ,,( the puhli,hcr L> c:xrr ,I) forbi.1kn. c:xccrr f,,r the purpocie, of rev1.11s 1nJ the r.rr0Juc11,,11c Mank ch.or..:ccr,h. ,·1> f ,r rcr,on11 use t>OI), \Vhnc Wulf md \'ampire the M,1"lucrade arc re "· ccrl,J 1r.ademarb u( White Wolf, Inc All r1cl,ts 1.:><rved. Mind', Eve Thc tre, M,i-queraJc Scrnnd l:.dit1on,
\\'cl"<'.\\t>lf the Apocah-p.e, Apocalyf"C, Ll\\,of the ight, TheRi,cn, Sea of Shado"'• Wraith the Oblivion, Wraith Pl.t1crx Guide ,nJ Guildbook Anificer, ir, rr.Jcmark ,ll Whnc \\'ulf. In<. \II ni:hr-r. ,·ncJ \IIch.1raccm, n:im , rl.acc).md 1cx1 herein:uc wpyncht,.J h1 \\ h11e \Voll, Inc.
The mcnuunofor rcfcr.·ru:e IO ·101·,,,mp.myor prud­ uc1 Ill 1hc-e p.l)!oh n,,t a challenge h 1he rraJemark or O.'f'\'lli:;htcon<.1:m,.J.
RecalL-e ,,1 the marurc themes mvnl,,,J, re,1,kr J,,. crc11on 1, aJn- '\I.
Ched ou1\'<'hne Wolf onlme at hrrp:/jww\\ "hne• "' ,lf.c,,m; ah.i:,,mc,.wlurc"nlf ,m,l r,-c.i;.,mc,.frp.-ior,rdkr
PRINTED IN CANADA.	■
2
ja leofContent
iiiiiioiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiii,
Tableof Contents
Ghost Story: little Girl lost
o my question is, what does a dead six ye<JT old want with a single sock, anyway?
That's what Jeremiah was wondering as he trotted home, ward, the pockmarked walls of the Citadel leeringdown at him as he paced its length. Up on the roof of what was an aban­ doned warehouse in the landsof the living, Legionnaires stood silent watch by the light of soulfire torches. The ruddy light flickered off of their armor and drawn blades, and cast mon­
strous shadows down che Citadel'sside.Through the windows, masked and chained wraiths could be seen moving abour, always backlit by the same soulfire glow. From somewhere inside came the dim ringing of a hammer and the occasional moan of a Thrall.
Jeremiah ignored it all. It was just business as usual m the Shadowlands, and he'd longsince grown used to it. Part of him was appalled that he was able to ignore what was gomg on behind those warehouse walls, but there was no other way to survive here in the Underworld.

You could always gomad, hissed a voice in the back of his mind. I'm t01d it's very therapeutic.
"Geescuffed, Shadow,"Jeremiah mumbled as he passed the last set of watchgates. The pair of guards stationed there stared after him, but made no move to follow. Everyone in the Underworld hada Shadow to deal with, a dark side with a voice that lived in the back of their head, and these two soldiers had obviously been around longenough co recognize Jeremiah's mutterings for what they were: a way of keeping
5
control. Occasionally 1 wnmh\ Shado"' could gee loo,c and take over h1, Corpus - h1, ghostly hoJy	with terrifying consequences. Jeremiah had no doubt thaL had his Shado'"' come out m front of the i?uard.s, he'd have been m,rantly subdued and chained.
Or u'QTse, his Shadow cackled. Or worse...
"I don't need chb crap, Shadow. l\·e got an appomtmenr with the weirdest ghlllil I've ever met m 10 minutes, and if you're gomg ro get p1ssy on me now, I'm headmg to a Pardoner nght after the meenng ends. He'll Cast11?ate your skanky butt "<\ hard I won't hear from you for a monch."
You're bluffin,::, rhe Shadow replied, but there wa, an edge of fear m its voice.
You don't lune the rdics ro pay fur duu
"And I don't have the nme co l1Sten to you. There's a lmle dead girl whom I need to go ,ee right now."
Then you'd better u·atch uhere you're gomg,Jary. I think )OU might Ml JUS! taken a wrong tum ...
There was a udJen, v1c1ous edge to the Shadow's \'Oice. Jeremiah had heard rh,lt edge hcfore, iu,r before his Shadow had taken him over -  or Just before he'd gm1en Harrowed. I le stopped, looked up, and cursed.
He had rakena wrong tum, chat much wa, ,,bv1ou,. Ram,h,Jckle bnck bmlJmg squatted on both mies of the (mer-choked Hreet he stood in, and empry windows like hungr · mouth gaped from their sides. Car.; on blocb, their windshields
,piderwebb,:d with crncb, lined the road, and a dimly flickering neon sign dangled
like a hanged man from a crumblmg fa de. Dimly visible, a ltvmg derelict shivered under a blanket of newspaper Jeremiah could read the man'sdeath in the desiccated line, ofh1s face. le wa:. coming soon.
There was a scrapmg sound behmd him, ond Jeremiah turned.
Smpme .
There were thrct of them, Renegades by their look. As a law-0b1J1ng H1er,1rchy wraith, Jeremiah had heard al'l<,ut Renegade,. Somecall1.-d chem,el\'es freedom fight­ er-, ,ome \\ere sdf-proclanned peace actl\·M and >me -  well, some were what could pollldy be called "chugs."
At a hunch,Jeremiah guessed that this mo fit into the latter category. All were well over '"' feet tall, dwarfing him. Their face were covered by gruesome masks, dl'mnmc c,mcatures nfhuman features. Draped in ragged chainmail and leather, they were armL-d with a ,·ariecy of blunt and bladed weapons, all prominently displayed. What drew Jeremiah's attentton, chough was the gli\tenmg set of manacles that the Renegade on rhe left wore at his belt.

Got your name on ihem. pal Gonna bea hoc tiTJW m the old wulforge for us tonil(ht. Gritung his teeth, Jeremiah did his hcsL to ignure the cackling m his head. Taking a careful step back"',1rd, he rai,ed h1, hands m the universal "no weapons"
ge,ture. "Hey, guys, I'm lose. I wa, w,,ndenng if you knew where chat lmle girl with all rhe relic socks h s her haunt? I'm supposed co meet her m a few minutes, see, anJ ... " He trailed off as muffk-d lauithter echoed out fr,,m bchmd che three masks.
"Oh ye . the lmle girl," The Renegade in the middle ,poke, phrasing his re­ ['<>llse in a brutal parody of a high-cLhs English accent. "Well, let's see. You go up
.;..;;;;:..:: ;;.;; ,;;;;;;::.;:;;:;: ;;;;;:;;;
,•·11
G ost to1ylittleGirllost
1=	==31
cwo lighcs, make a left at the Nihil, and... damn, I know I'm forgetting something. Jasper, what am I forgetting here?"
"You forgot," the second wraith said even as he stepped forward, swinging a length of whistling chain, "the first step."
"And what might chat ber' They were toying with him now, spreading out to
cue off his escape routes even as he backpedaled.
"First we nab his ass and sell him, that's what. Tre, grab him!"
Jeremiah turned co run but even as he pivoted, his arms were seized in an alliga• wr-jaw grip. A silhouette sprouting from behind him announced the arrival of the mysterious Tre, and the other two moved forward with manacles dangling.
"Damn, no trouble at all, man. No trouble at- aggh! The bastard's a Shaper!" He screamed and pulled back punctured hands that leaked plasm. Jeremiah ducked and spun away from his stumbling captor even as the spikes he'd sprouted from his arms flowed back into hisCorpus. Jasper and the fuse Renegade grabbed for him, but he dodged them and threaded his way left, in between a pair of derelict cars and towards the front of a building. Behind him,Jasper wasfollowing while the ocher two fanned out to either side.There was only one way to go: into the building.
He took a deep breath and plunged through the wall.There was the momentary feeling of dissolution char he hated so much, and then Jeremiah was inside.
The building was burned out and blackened. Away to the leftstairs led up to a ragged second floor, and he dove for them. Behind him, he could hear curses as his pursuers followed him through the solid surface. Eyes wide, he scrambled up the stairsand cur a hard right into what hadobviously once beena nursery. Relic coys lay scatcered on the ground, enough to bring him a small fortune at the local bazaar if he got our of here in one piece. The room's real status was plain enough to see: black­ ened and empty, with jagged teeth of glass in the maw of its window. But the memo­ ries of someone's childhood lingered here, in the form of ghostly furniture in faded pastels and a dangling, sad mobile. Phantom blocks scattered underfoot as Jeremiah stumbled in lookmg for escape, even as the pounding of feet on the stairs warned him chat his pursuers were gaining on him.

A half-opened door on the far side of the room beckoned, and he dove in. Streaming light indicated that the back wall of the closet he found himself in had heen burned away, so he ducked under a rotting two by four (probably real, he noted Lo himself) and into the next room. Behind him he could hear voices in the room he'd just vacated. From the sound of things, the Renegades had paused to confiscate the relic toys.
Silently praying, Jeremiah didn't dare move. Maybe the relics will be enough, he thought. Maybe they'll give up. Maybe they'll be satisfied with what they have. Ordinarily these three clowns wouldn't have worried him qutte so much. He knew enough Moliate to be nasty in a fight, and Jasper and company didn't look like they knew much about tactics. If all things had beenequal, he would have had no hesita­ tion raking the Renegades on. But all things weren't equal. He'd burned up most of his Pathos getting the single sock his contact wanted, and his Shadow was also get­ ting perilously strong. lfhegotina fight, it might get out, and then there'd really be hell ro pay. He was ured, hurting and lost, and just wanted to escape. Maybe l'U gee lucky chis rime, please God, he thought.
oolivion
He heard cautious foot,tep, in rhe elmer. AnJ maybe y1111're Jt'51 screwed, his Shadow hi M!d.
With I silenr curse, Jeremiah backed rowarJ the wmduw. He didn't want co ha\'e co Jump and risk D1 orporat1ng him,elf imo a Harrowing, but now he heard footsteps in the hall as well. He was boxed in.
He'd taken ..111 of perhaps three see when Tri'.! phased in through the hallway door. At the same nme,Jasper and his friend emerged from the closet, their pockets bulging wuh ,mien relics."Playtime's over, little wm1rh,"said Tr(!sofcly "Time for us to rake you to school." A rng doll dangled half our of the pocket of his ragged biker Jacket. Its head bobbed and lolled like the doll had hcen hanged, and ,rs armsflapped with each ,tep the Renegade took closer.
"Thn,e are my toys. What arc you doing with themr' Ir was a new voice, a little girl's voice.
The little girl. \Vhere the heU dtd wcome from',Jeremiah's ::,nadow demanded,
and he had no answer. Apparently the Renegndes wereJust asstunned, as theystopped advancing and stared at the newcomer.
She appeared young, pcrha sixor-even, and wore a blue frock. A headband pushed her long hair away from her face, and her features were pretty in a childish way. Mismatched striped •,ocks were pulled up m her knees, and dirt-scarred Keds wereon her feet. In her left hand was the ghmt of a teddy hear.
Her eyes, though, were what scared Jeremiah. Theyseemed old, for cooold for a little girl. They looked liLe they'd ,ccn more than any littlegirl should ha\•e, aliveor dead.
The Renegades didn't ,cem impressed. Laughing, they started forward again The little girl rook a step back. "This 1, my house. I 1.hdn't inv1re you in here,

and I wanr you to leave. Now." There was steel in her voice, but the incruders missed
1t. Jeremiah started srepping back, coo. Too quickly, though, h shoulderblade, hie wall. There was nowhere m go.
"Tell you what, liccle girl."Jasper was talking, using the want•somc•candy,lirrle­ g1rl voice 1mmort:11izcd by a thou,anJ TV pervem. "Why Jon't you and your toys both come with us, and you can come play over a1 our place." Hb left hanJ was behind his back, clutching a gently jingling pair of cuffs linked by bl.1cL chain.
She appeared puzzled, even as the other two,ufled mrers of laughter. "C1n my friend come, coor' she said, pointing at Jeremiah.
"Of course, and he'll play with you, to.> We'll all play together." "I don't know. I like to play here."
"Yes, but our pl.1ce has other toys that you'll like. Doe,n't it, Tr6?" Tre ,hook alert for a second "Wh .. yl>s, yes 1t c.l1e,. Lots of toy,."
The l1ttle girl sighed and let her tedJy bear drop to the floor. Jeremiah felt the strength leave him, and starred tuming to the window. le would be too !are, though. I le knew 1t. A!. 1f through a howling wmdstorm, he could hear the lmlc girl  peak­ ing. She wos saying, "Really, how stupid do you think I am?"
Then e\'erything was happening, all at once. In slow mm1on Jeremiah saw Jas­ per leap for the lmle girl, s,m Tre and the other Renegade lurching for him, felt his footingslip as he tried to leap for the window.
...
Gnost )!Off little Girllost
And he heard the little girl open her mouth and howl.
It was all the shrieks of all the pain of all the abused children in history. It was every sworn vengeance against a hated parent, and every cry of pain ever ripped out of che loser of a schoolyard fight. le was all of these and more, and the little girl rumed it loose on three Renegades who thought she was easy prey.
Jasper, cooclose coflee,simply had his Corpusshredded away by the forceof the scream. Before he'd ended his leap, he'd been flayed ro shreds, the tattered remains drifting into a Nihil and down to a Harrowing. The ocher two turned to flee but never made it, as the howl wound its way around them.
Tre had been begging for mercy when the Nihil claimed him. The ocher went silently.
As for Jeremiah, caught in the storm, he felt the plasm burscing out of his eyes and ears, felt the terrible pain inside his mind, and he and his Shadow screamed as one as they fainted.
It must have been hours later when he awoke, crammed intoa chair made for a much smaller person. The little girl sat across from him at a relic table. A toy tea set had been set out in proper array between the two of chem, and in a thud chair ro the side of the table, the teddy bearsar with an approving grin. Looking at him, the little girl smiled.

"Mommy always said to be polite to invited guests," she said."Now, do you have my sock?"
9
Ghapter One: Introduction
his game is probably different from anything you've ever played. In some ways, it's not reallya game at all.There is no board, there are nodice, and there is no set way of wmnmg. Oblivion 1s more concerned with stories than rules. ln face, chis game has more in common with childhood games than with Trivial Pursuit or Mo­
,   nopoly.Thisgameallows you to confront the darkness inside usall;
it enables you co assume the role of a ghost caught between the need cocling to the living and the necessity of movingon.
If you have never played in a live-action roleplaying game, be prepared for a unique experience. Even if you've been playingcable-cop roleplaying games for years, you will find that live-action gaming feels different. The game doesn't exist solely m your mind any more; now it comes to life around you. The rush of adrenaline and the feeling of"being" your character is much more intense. We have a name for thisstyle of game. We call it Mind's Eye Theatre.
The Artof Storytelling
Before you become engrossed in the rules sections, remember that Oblivion is flrsc and foremost a storytelling game. A good story should cake precedence over a rule. Ifeveryone involved in a dispute can agree on the outcome chat concraJicts the rules of this book, then ignore the rules. Rules are a safety net for when players can't
decide what should happen in a siniac1on, and a way to get everyone ro agree on what should happen. They should not be the be-all and end-all of your game, ocher-
wise the spontanciry and 1mprovisatton char makes hve,acuon roleplaymg so special c:in get lost.
ManLanJ ha, l>een tdlmg ,tone, for as long as we've had the ('O\\Cr of speech. Smee the earliest days of talc, cold by cavemen around their fires, we have created mcreJ1bly chven-e rypes of media to tell our Mories. Booh, radio, <lnima, celev1sion and even computer networks have camed our tales to others, and enabled us to hear
,cones we might ne\•er have he-ard otherw1-c, One of the newest metho,hof storytelling
1s that of live-acuon rolcplaymg, which grew out of the first table-top roleplaying g,1mes of the '70 .Of the many lhrecuons which gammg- has raken smce rhen, one of the mosr important has been rhe emphasis on character nnd story, which has led to
the creatmn of what we c1II '\toryceller" gnmes. The book you hold m your hands 1\ an attempt to explore the houndarie:. nfl1ve acnon and ,ror,:rellmg m gaming.
In recent years many people have given up their Jc,1re co tell stories, content only to !men co rhe stones rold by others. Those stories come flooding m from rhe TV, the Internet and a thousand other -<)urces, and some people believe they don't need to make their own stories any more By jvining a 1,.-ame of Oblivion, by reading this book, you are agreeing to help create a new ,tory, one m which you are both actor and co-author. It's a big step to take, but the end result can be incredibly re­ warding. To be able to look hack at a g.imc where you were pivotal in detenninmg what actually happened can give a feelin2 of accomph,hmcm that no movie or tele­ v1,ion show can match.

T e live-Action Gamingparaaigm
Table-top roleplaym2, while 1c 101ru. ix•ople in creating a story, snll lcaves mo,c of the story under the control of one person. In this oort of semng, the Sror;rdler has co dt.>SCribe the ennre world and ilny addmonal characters thar the rest of the gaming group encounters. The Storyteller h;is coral control of nearly e,·erything in the worlJ and cre• ates most of the ,cory, with the players conmhuting only their inv1dual chilracters' part,.
Live-acnon gaming, on the other hand, takes much of the conrr,,I of the serrmg and places 1t m the hands of the playe"'· When a hundred or more people are cellinp a ,rory at once, the Srorytelltr does not have to describe rhe ennrc world. The Stn­ ryreller creates ideas and goals and descrihcs rhe world m termsof rulci, and descrip­ uons to players. The players then act out their characters and create the story with only mm1mal mpuc from the Storyteller. With any luck, the story will unravel it\Clf, from the rightly knoned pu: le the Scoryceller miually prc,cnts to the full flowcrinl! of plot, exclusively through rhc actions and insights of the players.
Another ma1or shift that live-acunn ir,1ming hrings ro the arr of storytelling involves e apmg the lim1t,1t1oru, of the medium. The 1,.r.ime b no longcr limited to
Chapter One: introauction
words and 1maginaticm. Costuming, prop and other visual cues can be an integral pan of a live game. Instead of a Storyteller describing rwo people talking across the room, the players actually see them stanJing in the comer whispering. A long,dimly lir corridor covered in a threadbare carpet can be seen (and if necessary avoided) rather than just described. A moonlit courtyard scoured by a wind thar whips cloaks and skirtsaround bodies - living things that can be experienced by the flesh, rather than just the imagination.
oleplaying
When you play Oblivion, you cake on the persona of a wraith.This isa charac• ter you invent and then roleplay over the course of a storyand perhaps a chronicle (a seriesof connected stones).The life of your character i m your hands, for you decide whac your character doesand say . For the purposes of the game, you are your charac­ ter. You decide what risks to accept or decline. Everything you say or do has an effect on the world.
During the game, youshould alwaysspeak as your character. Unless you're talk­ ing to a Narrator or Storyteller, whatever you say is what your character says. Be­ cause most of what a Mind's Eye Theatre player perceives will depend on the char­ acters around him, players must be vivid and expressive. The characters direct the plot, but at the same time, the eventsof the game guide and develop the characters, helping them to weave the seamless tapestry of a story.
To an extent, as a player in a storytelling game, you have a responsibility be­ yondsimply portraying your character. Sometimes players need to consider the story as a whole rather than just their individual goals and satisfaction, and often players should make sure that other players enjoy the game. In the end, you should make sure that your actions do not completely ruin the story, for the story is as important as the characters.

Characters for Oblivion are easy to create. Ir cakes about 10 minutes to work out a basic personality and characteristics. However, chat's just the beginning. The process of creating your character will never really end, because she will always be learning and experiencing new things in every game you play, buc even before your first gamestarts, it takessome effort co turn rhecollection ofT raits and statistics into a living, breathing (so ro speak) whole. Remember, the character you create is the person you're going to be for at least a night, and probably longer. The idea is to create for yourself a role that different enough from your real persona to be enjoy­ able to play, but with enough of you in it for you to be comfortable. Both statistics (called Traits) and a believable combination of story and personalicy are necessary co create a character who is enjoyable co play. When Frankenstein created his monster, the cask of sewing cogether the available parts was relatively easy, if not always thrill­ mg. Providing the final spark of life was difficult, bur much more exciting.
Cast
Most of rhe players involved in any given game of Oblivion will create and roleplay characters. Players are members of the case, and their characters are central co the story. Being a cast member does not demand as much responsibility as being
13
.		J'..;;::=;;,-,.,.,;;,;;>-"'A..:1:A',; ...S,.
Olli!l>f the people who helps run the game, but it does JemanJ as much creativityand concemranon.
As a cast member, you rry to do things that allow your character ro "succeed,'' achieving goals or helping others to do so within the context of the story. Making sure thar your goals, strategies and schemes are carried out, and thar 1::vents work to your advantage while all of che ocher players are doing the samt> thmg creates the tension thar drive thegame's story.
Narrators
Any story requires at least one person to serve as its narrator. In Mind's Eye Theatre, Namnor is the name given to a person wh<) runs the game as a whole rather than just her md1vidual character.The impanial judges who run d,e game, Narrators describe scenes and events that cannot bestaged, adJudicate rules, and occasionally play the roles of antagonists. Generally, enlist mgone Narrator for every six players is a good ratio. That ratio can be adjusted, as the best number of Narrators for your game usually depends upon how much experience the people in your game have.
Narrators also takecare of what happens when a character decides to interact with something m the game other thananother character. Ifa character needs cosne-ak pasta watchful Cenrurion or access Jata from a computer in the landsof the living, the Narra­ tor plays the Centurion and determines how difficult the data is to retrieve. Anything a player's 1magmacion can con.1ure, a Narracor may be called upon to recreate.
Storyteller
The Storyceller is the ultimate authority and final Judge m Oblivion. The Sto­ ryccller creates the clementbof the btory that isbeing cold, and 1s in charge of making sun! that the srory unfolds well. Bemg the Storyteller is a demanding job, but it can be the most rewarding of all,foe the Storyteller is the weaver of the tapestry that all of the ocher playerb detail.

ules
Although the main idea of thisgame 1s co roleplayand cellstories, Oblivion still concams rules.They are needed to resolve what happens when a character doessome­ l.l,ing that the player cannot do {like walking through a wall or making portraits bleed) or does nor want to do (like engaging in combar wuh another character).
Rules are necessary to settle arguments - otherwise the game would bog down in the schoolyard dynamics of "Bang, bang, you're dead!" "You missed!" - and they add a vital measure of consistency to events in your world. Furthermore, the rules of Mind's Eye Theatre mgeneral and Oblivion in particular are designed co fit smoothly into gameplay and facilitate it, rather than delay it. A simple contest (see the Lexi• con) enables quick and easy resolution of disputes or conflico;, d1en it's back co roleplaying.
While rules are important, they are part of the game, not the game itself. The rule should serve to make things as fair as possible for all players, making cercam char the world of your game functions the same way for all of your players. They should not serve co limit roleplaying or mechanize character interactions, norshould they l;,e consulted like a sacred text at every opportunity. After all, the characters don't know rhe "rules"of their existence. TheyJust exist. Every time a rule isquoted, every rime a rulebook is opened, the illusion of the game is shattered.
Winnersand losers
There is no real way co ''win" a game when you play Oblivion. Your character can do well or poorly, bur there are no concrete conditions that grant the laurels of victory. Your character possesses motivatio.ns, ambitions and goals that helpyou de­ cide what her aspirations are in a story, but there is no poinc ac which your character will reach some sore of ultimate m-play pinnacle. Rather, there will always be new goals, challenges and antagonists to make your character's afterlife incerestmg.
Ultimately, the goal of Mind's Eye Theatre isco immerse yourself in the story and have fundoing ir. If you have fun playmg, then you cermmly cannotconsider yourself co
15
p,,P-	,
�:C
oolivion
•========	­
have "lost" in a game, no matter what happens  your character. Sure, it's more fun to
succeed in whatever quest yourcharacter has, but that doesn't mean that thedesnnarion b more important than the journey. The roleplaying you do co set up your goals and accioru. can be as rewarding as your ultimate "success" in any given endeavor.
props
In order for others to visualize your character, you might choose to wear a cos­ tume and employ props. You must not use anything char can harm you or another cast member (seeabove).Guns,swords, garottes, motorcycle chains, asegais, nunchuks and other real or imitation weapons are strictly forbidden. The Mind's Eye Theatre system uses a bitlding system in place of any actual physical combat. A player with a weapon might be tempted co hit someone with it or wave it about in a threatening manner. Actual physical danger is never an element in the game.

Cool costumes, jewelry, makeup and the like are strongly encouraged. Some people get heavily intocostuming when playing the game,and other players appreci­ ate the effort involved in creating a ghostly appearance. Costuming, ranging from period clothing ro dangling chains to masks, is alsoa good way co help create mooJ in both yourself and other players. A player should bring whatever she needs to the Mind's Eye Theatre event to evoke the persona of her character.
C ronicle
Hopefully, you'll wane to play Oblivion more than once. Each time you play, you may choose to create a new character for a brand-new story, or you can play the same character for evening after evening. Your persona can develop like a character ma novel instead of disappearing after one brief moment in the spotlight. By playing man extended chronicle - a whole series of stories- with the samecharacter, you can help your character to develop and grow, gaining new allies, status, influence and power. There's also the possibility that your character might spiral down co the Void itself, seeking ultimate annihilation of the self. Both possibilities offer the po­ tential for spectacular journeys and superb ruleplaymg experiences.
Tne WorldofDarkness
The world of Oblivion ts a dark reflection of our own. Here, beautyandcorruption srand our in greater contrast; everything is monolithic, majestic and twisted. Though faith and human spirit remainstrong,greed and dispatr seem strongerstill.The Gothic­ Punk world that Oblivion cakes place in is a darker, more violent version of our own. "Punk" is reflected in the rejection of society by many young people, who demonstrate their rebelhon with everything from unconventional dress to violence ag-ainst "the Sys­ tem."Trapped ma cold and bleak world, they reject a society that will not accept them and struggle in the hope of something bener down the road.
Bur moreso than in Oblivion's companion games Masquerade and Apocalypse, Oblhion concentrates on the Gothic part of the equation, Think back co the Gothic noveb you've read and penod films you've seen. Whether the settmg i,, a darkly forbid­ ding city of glassand steel or a crumbling castle, there is always the sense of an era chat now exists only m memory, of a time and place unlike our own. This sense of what was
18
once new and shming covered in cobwebs and grime is present from the nightmarish Gotham Cityof the Bacman filmsto DraculascrumblingCarfux Abbey to even the vaguely art decolandscapes of the Giger-Gibson futures.What wasonce elegant or avant-gaide is now faded, and the fading colorsand crumbling fa des lllSplre both terror and pity.
Another pan of the Gothic ambiance is the senseof isolation. Whether the charac­ tersare alone on the Yorkshire moorsor in the midst of a Manhattan cocktail party, they will never again be a pan of the world of the living. Consider the mystery novels you've read, in which somehow the telephone wires are cut, the carsdisabled, and the charac­ ters crapped together, isolated from any source of help. This can be a terrifying situation for most modem people, whoare used to having the entire worldonly a phone callaway. But just as this isolation invokes an atmosphere of desperation and terror, it also forces the characters to realize that theycan only rely uponeachother, and that they alone will have to take responsibility for their fates. For many of the Restless, this is a difficult but absolutely essential lesson to learn upon crossing the Shroud.

Of course, there are many among the Resdess who would try to forget all of chis. They run with the living, losing themselves in the overwhelming onslaught of night­ clubs, with their myriad flashing lights and booming basslmes. The Restless come to these places to forget, just as the Quick do. Two hundred people are packed onto a dance floor, each trying to escape, to lose themselves in light,sound and movement. Yet even there, there is little or no contact between people. They are asalone on the dance floor as they would be were they adrift on a desolate ocean.
Both of these typesof locations, the haunted mansion or the ultra-modem club, can be appropriate for a game of Oblivion. Your choice of location will effect the mood and atmosphere of the game greatly, so choose wisely and be prepared to stand by your choice. After all, your characters are going to be spending eternity there.
itCan't in All theTime
Beyond all of this, there must always be a sense of hope. Anyone who is over­ come by the senseof decay and despair of the Shadowlands becomes easy prey for her Shadow, and will probably spiral down to the Void in no time at all.Wraiths survive in this bleak world because of their Passions, their overwhelmmg emotional needs that give them reason cogo on existing. For many wraiths, it isonly after their deaths that they find a reason to live.
While a wraith's existence is often gnm and it is sometimes hard to find area­ soncostruggle on, that is just what each character mustdo. Each soul lost coOblivion is a tragedy, but each soul that resists Oblivion's cold call can make it a little bit easier for everyone else to resist as welI.
Geograpny
he realm of the dead, also known as the Underworld, is made upof three main parts. The first one a new wraith will encoun­ ter is known among the Restless as rhe Shadowlands. A gnm reflection of the world of the Quick, the Shadowlands are stained withdecay and the perfume of death infuses everything. This is where most Oblivion games will take place, for it is
•===============-
only m the Shadowlands that wraiths can remain in a semblance of the real world.
The Shadowlands are separated from the lands of the living (or Skinlancb) by a metaphysical barrier called the Shroud.
Another area of the Underworld that wraiths may encounter is the Tempest. An eternal storm that rages just below the surface of the Shadowlands' reality, it is reachable through pits known as Nthils, or by use of the Argos Arcanos. The Tem­ pest is used to travel quickly from one point to another in the Shadowlands, without craversmg the distance between. In most games of Oblivion, the Tempest will prob­ ably be used chiefly as a travel realm, rather than as an actual story setting.
Deep within the Tempest is the thtrd sort of temtory known in the Under­ world. It is here that we find Stygia, home of the Hierarchy and capital of Charon's empire. Further into the Tempe,t are the i,lands known as the Far Shores, as well as the other Deadlandsor Dark Kingdoms. Many wraiths see the FarShoresas placesof peace and tranquility, but official Hierarchy policy is chat they are more Purgatory than Paradise.

Distant from Srygia and the FarShoresare the various other Dark Kingdoms, co which the Dead from many lands pass on. Like Stygia, each of these lands has a sy tem for classifying and dealing with the many souls that pass through its gares, but few from the West have journeyed to these lands and returned.
While tales of Srygia and her sister kingdoms across the Sea of Shadows abound, few wraiths in rhe Shadowlands haveseen these places frrst-hand. Noconly is the jour­ ney dangerous, even to the dead, but most wraiths are tied to the landsof the living by what are called Fetters. items, places or people of great importance to the wraith in life, they anchor a Restless against Oblivion's relentless pull but can also hinder her from traveling far from them. Wraiths who lose all of their Fetters cannot return to the Shadowlands, but must dwell m Stygia and the Tempest; wraiths with Fettersoften fmd their movement and actions impeded if they travel too fur from chem.
Another reason few travelers journey far m the Underworld is surely the fact that the Tempest is without a doubt the most dangerous and terrifying "place" any wraith will ever know. Navigation is difficult for even the most seasoned wraith, given the ever-shifting scenery and murky quality of the Tempest. The Tempest is also home co a great many Spectres, who search its cloudy depths for unsuspecting wraiths to capture and either descroy or convert to the worship of Oblivion.
The DarkSicte
Every wraith's dark side has a voice and a personality, and it will pur the twoco the best use it can imagine. Known as the Shadow, chis side of the wraith's persona seeks nothing more than to drag the wraith down to Oblivion. Of course, each Shadow is different and has unique motivations, drives and tastes. Shadows will even sometimes help their ocher halves, making their mcv1rable betrayals all the more shocking.
Harrowings
An important part of the process by which a wraith can be sucked down to the Void is the Harrowing. A psychological passion play directed by the Shadow and performed by Spectres, a Harrowing occurs whenever a wraith has used up all of a
Cl1apterOne:introduction
i .;;;.;;._. ,;:	"'-" -
certain kind of Tra•ic-(-u-su-a-ll-y-C-o-r-p-u-s,-s-o-m-e-ti-m-e-s -W-i-ll-p-ow--er-)-o•r loses a Passion or Fetter. When a Harrowing stares, the wraith falls into rhe Tempest and sometimes even further, co the Labyrinth the Spectres call home. There the Harrowing is per­ formed, and any wraith trapped in one may well be destroyed. Wraiths who escape Harrowmgs rerurn to one of their Fetters.
le con
A new existence calls for new terms with which co describe it. Below are some of the phrases and names used to define Underworld exiscence.
Abilities: The measure of a wraith's expertise in specific fields. Measured in Traits. Agency, The: Slang for the bureaucracy of the Hierarchy.
Aggravated wounds: Wounds inflicted by a special source (flre, Stygian steel, etc.) that are especially difficult to heal.
Angst: The negative mental energy that the Shadow (and Spectres) feed upon and use.

Arcanos: One of the supernatural abilities that wraiths possess, allowing chem to
affect the living and the dead. Plural is Arcanoi.
Arcanum, The: A collection of scholars and ghost-hunters among the Quick. Archetypes: Basic personality types, from which Nature and Demeanor are chosen. Arisen: Wraiths who have Transcended.
Artifact: An object in the Underworld that has unusual powers of some sort. Attributes: The measure of a wraith's basic Physical, Social and Mental statistics. Measured in Traits.
Bidding: Part of the mechanism of challenges. The risking of Traits in order to win a challenge.
Body Snatcher: A wraith who possesses the living. Boo Job: A premeditated attempt to scare the Quick.
Boojum: A nasry critter, usually one of the unidentified denizens of the Tempest. Byway: A stable path chrough the Tempest.
Caul, The: The amniotic sac of a wraith's birth inco the Shadowlands. The translu­ cent covering made from ectoplasm with which all wraiths are reborn.
Challenges: The method by which disputes are settled in Oblivion. Charon: Founder and ruler of the Hierarchy, missing since 1945. Circle: A group of wraiths, usually engaged upon common business. Citadel: The central building and stronghold of a Necropolis.
Cohort: A Circle composed of Hierarchy-affiliated wraiths. Cohorts are supposed co have 10 members.
Consort: A living person attuned to be used as a Host. Corpus: The "body" of a wraith. Plural is Corpora.
Cult: An unflattering name for one of the countless Heretic sects.
Deathlord: One of the seven wraiths currently ruling the Hierarchy. Each has do­ minion over the victims of a certain sort of death (i.e., violence, pescilcnce, myscery, etc.).
-i
•===============-•
Derangements: Mental instabilities acquired by wraiths during their unliving exist­
ence.
Dictum Mortuum: Charon's decree forbidding trafficking with mortals. Domain: Territory held by a wraith or a Circle of wraiths.
Doomsday: The day when Oblivion swallows everything; conversely, the day when the Shadowlands and Skinlands merge. Doomsday fearures prominently in many Heretic cults' philosophies, even if no two Heretics can agree as to what exactly it is. Doomshade: A Spectre.
Doomslayer: A wraith who specializes in hunting Spectres.
Drone: The shell of a wraith, doomed to endlessly repeat a single cask until claimed
by Oblivion. Drones have no mind or will.
Enfant: A wraith just reborn into the Underworld, usually encased in a Caul. Experience: Pointsgiven to characters as they progress through multiple games. Used for increasing the character's staustics and powers.
FarShores,The:The lands across the Tempest, supposedly corresponding to Heaven, Hell and more.
Fetters: Those things that remain in the lands of the living that tie a wraith to her old life.
Freewraith: A wraith who is not actively serving in the military. Gang: A Circleof Renegades.
Garou: A werewolf; what werewolves call themselves.
Guild: One of the supposedly banned orgamzations of freewraiths dedicated to the study and use of one of the Arcanoi. There were 13 Greater and three Lesser Guilds. Harrowing, The: A sleigh-ride through the worst side of a wraith's subconscious, courtesy of his Shadow and the Spectres of the Tempest. More than one wraith has heen cle rrovecl cl11rinP a HarrowinP.

cliapter One:introouction
Harvesting: The act of cutting Enfams free from their Cauls and initiating them into the Shadowlands. Many Harvesters are actually slavers, and the initiation they offer consists of a pair of manacles linked by Stygian steel chams.
Haunt: A place where the Shroud is thin and the Restless feel at home. Healing: The process of using Pathos Traits to restore Health.
Health: The measure of how much physical damage a wraith has taken.
Hell: Supposedly, a place of puoishmeor for wicked souls. In the Underworld, a joke of the first order; there are so many false hells that they've become somethmg of a tourist attraction for the more advencurous among the dead.
Heretics: Religious fanatics among the dead, though many blZl!rre religions have sprung up among the Restless. Mose Heretics have some sort of central belief based around the notion of Transcendence.
Hierarchy, The: The monolithic bureaucracy of the Dark Kingdom of Iron, a.k.a. rhe Empire of Scygia. At d1is point, the Empire and the Hierarchy have become interchangeable in most wraiths' minds. The Hierarchy is che largest collection of Western wraiths in the Underworld.
Host: A living person possessed by use of the Arcanos Puppetry.
lnfluences: The measure of how much control a Restless has on mortal institutions. Measured in Traits.
Isle of Sorrows, The: The island m the Tempest which the city of Stygia is built upon.
Juice: Pathos.
Kindred: A vampire; what vampire., call themselves. Legacy: Archaic way of referring to a very potent Fetter.
Legions: The military and police of Stygia, though technically every Stygian citizen owes allegiance to one of the Legions. Each Legion is overseen by a Deathlord.
Lemure: A young wraith, recently deceased but no longer an Enfanc.
Maelstrom: The terrifying storms that sweep from the mouth of the Void out over the Shadowlands, bearing Spectres and leaving destruction in their wake. Growing more frequent in recent years, they either herald or are the result of horrific events in the Skinlands.
Mage: A human who uses the forces of mag1ck to affect the world around him.
Meat: Mortal flesh.
Mitty: A wraith whose deepest regret is not having lived while he had the chance. Mittys are surprisingly common.
Moleman: Wraiths whoclaim co have experienced the stereotypical "tunnel of light." The term is not considered a compliment.
Mummy: A member of a care race of apparently immortal beings who coexist with vampires and wraiths.
Necropolis: A city of the dead. Also used to specify the regions of cines of the Quick most thickly inhabited by wraiths. Plural is Necropoli or Necropoleis.
Nihils: Rips in the fabric of the Shadowlands, tearing through the surface reality and e,cposing the surging Tempest benead,. Some Nihils lead down co the Labyrinth. Numina: Rare, special powers possessed by humans.
23
Oblivion
Oblivion: The manifestation and hunger ofenrropy, alsoknown to some as the Greac Unmaking. Oblivion is the final fate of all chings in Lhe Underworld, save those who Transcend. The physical manifestation of Oblivion is called the Void, and it opens upon che heart of the Labyrinth.

Obolus: The Stygian base unir of currency, forged from one soul. Onyx Tower: Charon's palace, now abandoned.
Pathos: Pure emotion, which wraiths feed upon and use m cheir daily existence. The usable essence of pass10n.
Plasm: The physical maLter of che Underworld. Wraiths, relic and Artifacts are all made of plasm.
Projectors: Visitors to the Underworld from the Skinlands. Also known as Skinboys.
Quick, The:The living.
Reaper: A wraith who removes an Enfant's Caul. Relic: The memory of an object, made from plasm.
Renegades: Wraiths whostand opposed to the Hierarchy. They have nostructure, organization or unified goal other than rebellion. Renegades range from true free­ dom fighters co the ghostsof ruffians looking for an easy afterlife.
Restless, The: Wraiths in general. Also known as the Restless Dead.
Risen: A wraith wh<> has found a way to reanimate her corpse. Most wraiths believe Risen ro be legendary.
Shadow, The: The darker side of a wraith's personality. The Shadow isselfish, ego­ centric and sad1Stic, and directs its effons coward destroying all che wraith loves (including the wraich himself).
Shadowlands, The: The ghostly realm just across the Shroud from the lands of the living.
Slumber: The healing sleep chat wraiths can indulge in. Soulfire: Crystals of concentrated Pathos, used in soulforgmg.
Spectre: A wraith whoseShaJow hasachieveJ permanent dominance.Spectres serve Oblivion. Also known as the Shadow-Eaten.
Stormrunning: Taking a shortcut across the Tem 1:, as opposed to usmg a Byway. Stygia: The Dark Kingdom of Iron, the largest organization of wraiths in the West­ ern world. Also the capital city of the empire of the Western Restless.
Tempest, The: The great stonn of the UnJcrworld that separates the Shadowlamlb from Srygia and the FarShores.
Thrall: A wraith who is in service to another. In es,ence, a slave. Tithe: The amount of Pathos a wraith draws from a Haunt or Fetter. Trait: The unit by which statistics in Oblivion are measured.
Transcendence:The moment when a wraith reconciles Shadow and Psyche, moving on ro a higher (?) existence. Transcendence is considered legend by most wraiths, and feared by many others.
Underworld, The: The realms of the dead, from the FarShores to the Shadowlands and includingStygia, the Tempest, the Labyrinth and the Void.
Veinous Stair: The passage from the heart of Srygia into the Labyrinth. Void, The: The abyss at the heart of the Labyrinth.
Willpower: The measure of how strong a wraith's will is. Measured in Traits.
Witch-hunter: A human who searches for ghosts in order to kill them.
Wraith: A ghost, a spirit who retains such strong attachments to the lands of the living that she cannot move past this level of existence. Also called the Restless.
25
chapter TWO:
Setting
his chapter describes in detail the world of Wraith. Everything from thecosmology of the Underworld tothe politicsof theisleof Scygia is here, granting you a first look at the geography, culture and history of the lands of the dead. Some of it may cake a linle getting used co;someof it might notseem immediately applicable
' toagameof Oblivion, butall of it helps weave the tapestry within the foldsof which your own adventures will cake place.

TheUnderworld
he lands of the dead, consisting of the Far Shores, the Tempest (and all things within it),Scygia and theShadowlands arecollec­ tively known as the Underworld. Technically the other so-called Dark Kingdoms, those afterlives populated by the dead of Asia, Africa, India and other placesarealso partof the Underworld, but as they have little codowith the night-to-nightexistence of most Stygian wraiths, they tend co fall under the heading of "out of sight, out of mind." When a Western gho:;t refers to the Under­
world, he generally doesn't mean the Chinese or Polynesian Deadlands.
oblivion
The passive, patient aspect of destruction, Oblivion isa part of the naturnl order of things. le waits for all things when they break down; everything must die eventu-
ally, m order to make way for new things to be born. When kept in check by rhe forces of creation, Obl1v1on is an eswnw1l part of the cycle of death and rebirth. Mindless and eternal, Oblivion has always waned to swallow tho,e souls no longer Fettered to the Skinland, but not ready for Transcendence.
These days, however, 1r would seem chat Oblivion rages unchecked. Its pull strengthens daily as its appeme forsouls increases. Its pre:.ence mars the Underworld and rhe Skinlands to an unprecedented degree, and its tainted touch 1s everywhere. In the form of$pectre5 1t has more and more servants among the dead, and they ride more and mme frequent Maelstroms to make war upon the Restless. Simply pur, Oblivion is gmwing and no one is sure why. Most wraiths resolve to fight the en• croaching corrupnon; too many surrender to 1t.
Supposed!} there will come a day when Oblivion wallows everything.Quaintly known as Doomsday, this day is dreaded by all \Vl'31ths and eagerly anuc1pated by all Spectres. With Doomsday comes the end, so they say, of everything, both for the living and the dead.
Souls:BuildingBlocbof the Underworld
The economy and :;ociety of the Underworld are boch built on souls. Most ob­ jects m the Underworld are made of memories; the remainder are compo:,ed of smelted or reshaped -.ouk Currency consists ot coinsforged from souls; these oboli are said to moan in the hands of chose who possess chem.
As souls are the basbof cheeconomy, they are regarded less as individuals than as resources.Slavery is a booming busine intheShadowlands, ba ed not on color or creed, but on the simple proposmon chat the strong ensla\'e the weak because they can. Reapers enthrall as many new, defensclc:;s wraiths as they are able, while mmd­ less Drones are regarded as a bonanza of riches by a Harvester lucky enough co come across them. Emlaved wraiths are then marched off ro the Thrall markets or, 1f they are unlucky, 10 the soulforgcs.
It 1s an inhumane ,ystem, and a homfying one. There are those wraiths who claim th,i1 even soulforged or Moliated wraiths are slill aware and suffer endle ly; even rhe (X1 1b1l11:y of this is regarded as unthinkable by most wraith,. However, the system persis1s. le has been in place too long, and there are too many wraiths who have coo much co lo e 1f che soulforgmg trade ends. Be,1de,, there .ire 1u,tificat1ons:

;,oulsteel is needed to stand a inscOblivion; souls tha1 are smelted or Moliated mco workaday obicccs are no longer in danger of feeding and strengthening Oblivion; some believe that soulforgmg hammers the Shadow out of a wraith; and so on. Still, the cronge,t r1..-a,-0n for the practice's conunuation i a simple one: no alternative exists. And ,o the Harvesters still bring their prey home m chains, and the soulforges still echo with the screams of the condemned, and the borders of the Citadeb are st11l lit wich Thralls reshaped mto blazing torches.
Trading inSouls
The vast maiority of souls avoid the Underworld entirely. Swallowed immedi­ ately by Oblivion or lifted into Transcendence, they avoid the half-existence of
\Haiths. For tho,e who <lo become wraiths, however, their fellow Restless po,e a threat almost ai. great as Ohlivion.
Objects in the Underworld are of two kinds: memories and souls. Relics, objects that cross over from the Skinlands, are in essence created by the emotional energy invested m chem by the living; a much-loved ceddy bear or a single sock endlessly cursed over will both reappear in relicform when thrown out or destroyed. However, even w1rh the best efforts of certain wraiths to pick and choose what comes over the Shroud, the selection is still haphazard, and notably slanted toward non-essential items. For example, relicgunsarecommon, butrelic bullets are not. Relicdollsabound, but relic girders or bulldozers are lamentably scarce. ln addition, most relics exist as solid-state objects, duplicating form but not function unless invested with Pathos. Arcifacr.s, objects invested with special powers, sometimes arrive directly from the Skinlands, but infrequently. Thus, there is a need for another source of inanimate objects, one chat provides more pliable and versatile roatenals. In other words,souls.
If a new Enfant is unlucky, he'll end up being Reaped by a slaver. These Har­ vesters roam the Shadowlands, collecting wraiths who are too weak, disoriented or foolish to defend themselves. Wraiths who are enslaved (the technical term is en­ thralled) will find themselves shackled with chains forged from Stygian sLeel, and herded toward the nearest Necropolis to be sold or smelted down. A fortunate few aresimply sold intoan eternity ofservitude asThralls; the rest become raw materials in che burgeoning Stygian economy.
Just about anything can be forged from souls: girders, chains, weapons, furni­ ture, ecc. Those objects chat require a more delicate touch duringcreation are often created by wraiths skilled in the Arcru1os Moliate, who can reshape Corpus with a thought and a touch. Even the coins of rhe Underworld are made from souls, with each obolus consisting of one soul, hammered intoa press.
Of course, not every soul isconsigned to the forges. A minimal amount of luck, combined with a modicum of brainpower, will enable a wraith to elude the Harvest• ers until such time as she is able to ward off their depredations. Many wraiths are Reaped by friendlier guides into the afterlife; some even manage to free themselves from their Cauls. Furthermore, Stygian law prevents the forging of any souls except Spectres, criminals and Thralls. On the other hand, the definitions of"criminal" and "Thrall" are conveniently loose for most Reapers to make themselves a tidy profit. Short of Oblivion, there is no more permanent doom for a wraith than soulforging, and most will take their chances in the Void rather than in the forge.

TheConstructionof theUnderworla
Known by many names bur never mapped, the Underworld does nor exist as a "place" in the way that the living view geography. Instead, it is a non-Euclidean nightmare co any who chink that a straight line is still the distance between two pomrs. Even most wraiths don't quire understand che nature of the realm in which they dwell; they tend ro resort co models of increasing simplicity and inaccuracy in order to explain their surroundings.
Also known as the Dark or Low Umbra cosome, the Underworld is best under­ stood as consisting of layers chat, likeC.S. Lewis' mythical kingdom of Narnia, grow larger the further in you go.The outermost one, called the Shadowlands, is identical in location ro the lands of the living. Anywhere the living go the dea<l go as well, and only the metaphysical Shroud separates the two. Theoretically, a wraith could
■	■
walk from Canton, Ohio to Canton, China without ever leavmg the Shadowlands. All that would be required would be patience and a good set of relic boots.
Existing just "below" the surface of the Shadowlands is the eternal turbulence called the Tempest, a roiling, nightmarish storm that has raged unceasingly for half a millennium. No matter whereone goes in the Shadowlands, the Tempest is no more than a slight rip in the fabric of realicy away. Indeed, the Tempest is best thought of as a sort of hyperspace underlying the "reality" of the Shadowlands.
Snaking through this nightmare of a storm are paths of relative safecy called Byways,leading from point to point within the Shadowlands, or from the Shadowlands to the deeper realms. Travel from point to point through the Tempest wtthour resort• ing coa Byway is also possible, and often is faster than taking one of the winding safe paths. On the other hand, travelers in the storm are exposed to its dangers, and the things that dwell within it.
In additton to safe routes through the Tempest, there are islands of srabilicy within the storm as well. The city ofScygia rests on one such island; the innumerable Far Shores rest on others. In these places the Tempest is covered by a deceivingly placid ocean called the Sunless Sea, across which soul-rraffic once moved unceas• ingly. Other islands of safery exist within the storm as well: Feng-tu, Swar, the Sea Thar Knows No Sun, the Bush of Ghosts, and others, the death-realms of other cultures and societies. Some have dealings with Sryg1a, trading souls or waging war across the seas of the dead.
Deep within rhe storm is the fear-shadowed Labyrinth. No one knows what the walls of this horrifying place are made from, though the few explorers who have returned from wandering it report that the very substance of the passages changes as one walks through. Hospital corridors, mirrored mazes, sluggish flowsof molten rock
- all can be found within the Labyrinth. Here, coo, can be found the slumbering Malfeans, the oldest and most potent Spectres.
At the very bottom of the Underworld rests the entrance to the Void. Those who place the Void at the base of the Tempest do so deliberately; entropy serves as grav1cy here, and Oblivion's manifestation exerts a pull on all things in the Tempest and its isles. The Void is ultimate blackness and destruction, a yawning chasm at the center of the Labyrinth. None who haveentered the Void haveever returned, though the fearful belief of some is that reincarnation awaits on the other side of destruc­ tion. Unfortunately, evidence for this hypothesis is sadly lacking at the moment.

TheShadowlands
The stillborn twin of the lands of the living, the Shadowla.ruls correspond ex­ actly to the Skmlands in terms of geography. A wraith standing in Times Square in the Shadowlands is, in a sense, standing in Times Square in the Skinlands, and runs the nsk of being trampled by mortals who don't see him and rush right over his position.
Everything that exists in the Skinlands exists in the Shadowlands, more or less. The more emotion an object or a place inspired in the livmg lands, the more con­ cretely it appears in the Deadlands, and buildings long gone in the Skinlands still rise on the other side of the Shroud. At once beautiful and terrible, the landscape of
30
- .
.sr-&J
--==============--•
the Shadowlands is constructed of memories draped like cobwebs over those places which yet stand in living lands.
Objects m the Shadowlands are irreducibly solid to a wraith, but things in the Skmlands are lessso. A wall may initially pen a wraith intoa room, but by expending a minimum of Corpus she can walk right through it. A wraith may be able to reach our to a paperweight or a pencil, but without the use of her Arcanoi she cannot
couch it. It is only the Shadowland echoes of these things, once they are destroyed, that a wraith can affect directly.
What goes on in the Skinlands is plainly visible to wraiths in the Shadowlands. They can watch TV or eavesdrop on board meetings with ease, invisible and intan­ gible. However, these perceptions of the Skinlands are often marred by the touch of death, as wraiths see the creeping decay in all things. Still, even the most Oblivion­ tainted among the living appear healthier and more vital than the lands beyond the Shroud, which are gray and somber wich rotting majesty.
TheShroud
The barrier of disbelief and despair that separates the living lands from the Underworld, che Shroud is what divides death from life. Spontaneously raised during the mysterious catastrophe called the S11ndering, the Shroud 1s what limits the ways m which wraiths can touch the Skinlands. The monger the Shroud is in a given place, the more difficult it is for a wraith to reach through to the Skinlands there.
Strongest in places of disbelief and reason, the Shroud is nearly impenetrable in places such as laboratories and lecture halls. Conversely, in places where belief and fearof death arestrong, the Shroud correspondingly weakens, and wraiths have more play in the lands of the living. Cemeteries and homes with troubled adolescents are often places where the Shroud is particularly thin. Also, there are certain nights when, worldwide, the Shroud weakens. These are the nights when the living would
he well-advised to stay indoors, for all over the world, the ghosts are coming out to play.
Haunts
Home sweet home for the dead, Haunts are places where strong emotion has frayed the fabric of the Shroud thin. Here the Shadowlands and Skinlands almost overlap; here are the places d1at the living superstitiously call "haunted."

It 1s the darker emotions that wear through the Shroud most easily, though strong love, hope or courage will do so as well. Even so, Haunts tend to be found in places of despair, desperation or sorrow. Graveyards, slums, batdefields, abandoned
houses, prisons, nightclubs, lonely crossroads and treacherous curves all frequently serve as Haunts.
Most Haunts are vigorously settled by a wraith or Circle of wraiths and de­ fended to the utmost; as wellsprings of emotion and places of shelter, Haunts are ht,tly sought after. Visitors are usually not welcome. Other wraiths prefer to use their Arcanoi to wear on the Shroud, creating Haunts in places of their choosing. Re­ cently,some enterprising ghosts have experimented with raking their Haunts onlme, though whether or nor they've succeeded is a matter of coniecture.
31
·- z
1 <r .-
===============-•
To the living, Haunts are most often grim and depressing places. No one with­
out severe mental disorders or a depressed poet's mentality would voluntarily live in a Haunt. Those few who try are generally driven out immediately, unless the wraiths who own the Haunt prefer to keep the Living around as emotional fodder for their Passions.
Most Domains are centered around single Haunts. l11e more potent the Haunt is, generally the larger the Domain around it. If pressed, wraiths will give up every mch of the rest of their Domain before they give up rheir Haunt. After all, it is both strength and shelter.
Sfygia
The Eternal Necropolis of Siygia is the collection of all of the dead dreams of empire mankind has ever wrought. As Carthage and Gomorrah fell, their ghostly ruins were gathered and brought to constructStygia's courtsand towers. When Rome and Byzantium were sacked, their wreckage wassalvaged and brought to build Stygia ever higher. Jerusalem and Paris, London and New York, every Imperial Ciry chat ever was i)i echoed in the architecture of the capital of the dead. Built upon the seven hills of the Isle of Sorrows, Stygia the city and Stygia the empire have become syn­ onymous.
Seen from the bottom, Stygia is a claustrophobic nightmare. The weight of ages has pressed down upon the oldest buildings, and Maelsrrom and invasion have taken their toll. Here the streets are cramped and dirty, and the overhanging edifices are crushed beneath the weight of newer constructions.Only the poor and the desperate can be found here, amidst the wreckage of centuries.
The higher one goes in the city, however, the more astonishing the view be­ comes. Newer building and better-preserved treasure of antiquity are the norm. The Library of Alexandria can be found here, and the shining palaces of the Deachlords. This is where the wealthy and powerful among the dead dwell, in stun­ ning contrast to the despair m the labyrinthine warrens below.
Bounded by a sea wall crafted from thousands of souls, the city is home to mil­ lions more. The wallscannot contain all who wish to dwell in Stygia, and so bridges have been cast across the watersof the Sunless Sea co the Iron Hilb, islands that rise from the 1Yaters nearby. Secondary colonies and edifices occupy these smaller isles, but even in the face of such overcrowding, some buildings m Stygia stand empty. The Great Temple of the Fishers, for example, and Charon's Onyx Tower are aban­ doned; even among the dead they have unpleasant reputations.

TheTempest
To sayonly that the Tempest is rhe eternal storm of the Deadlands is to beguilty of gross understatemenr. Eternally raging with a fury unthinkable in the lands of the living, the Tempest is the raw fury that underlies all of the Shadowlands, separating them from Stygia and the Far Shores. Inhabited by shrieking Spectres and ocher, fouler things, it isa roiling sea of chaos within which time, space and distance cease to have meaning.
The landscape of the Tempest is constantly changing; rains of broken glass, noxious gases, eruptions of boiling pitch and worse are common sights to travelers.
Fragments of realities and memories are constantly mflicted upon those who journey through the endless storm, as each wraith who passes through the Tempest leaves something of himself behind. Even those souls who plummet directly to Oblivion upon death leave a memory, a relic or a feeling floating in the storm, co be encoun­ tered by an unwary traveler at some later date.
Wraiths passing through the Tempest are oftengiven revelations, many of them unwamcd. Visions of Fetters or other lives, premonitions, glimpses of the Skinlands and ocher scenes will intrude on a wraith's consciousness as she navigates the dark­ ness.
There are a few islands and strands of stability within the Tempest. The former include Srygia itself, as well as the myriad Far Shores and the other realms of the dead. Narrower paths of relative safety are called Byways, and they screech between realms in the Underworld. Some connect disparate locations in the Shadowlands while others stretch to Srygia or even the Far Shores. Appearing as rivers or roads wending incongruously through the storm, Byways offer relatively safeand fast travel. The greatest Byway is known as the River of Death, whichsupposedly winds its way across all of the Shadowlands and even to the gates of the Labyrinth itself.
At the heart of the Tempest is the Spectre-haunted maze of the Labyrinth, which according to legend was gnawed from nothingness by Malfeans at the dawn of rime. At the very coreof the Labyrinth, far worse thananyMinotaur could be, is the mouth of the Void, Oblivion's embodiment. Few wraiths have gazed upon it and returned co tell others of cheir impressions.
Ninils
Reality is not solid, particularly noc in the Shadowlands. The Shadowlands are constantly splintering and breaking, and where the fabric of this part of the Under­ world tears, the Tempest bubbles through.
By strict definition, a Nihil is a rip in the Shadowlands that allows access to the Tempest beneath. Most Nihils are one-time-only events, though many open and closeon regular cycles.Someare permanently open; these are often heavily guarded by whichever wraiths dwell nearby.Just as a Nihil allows a wraith access to the Tem• pci;t from the Shadowlands, ir can allow dwellers in the Tempest a way out. Indeed, doomslayers do some of their best hunting at the mouths of Nihils in the Tempest; Spectres tend to cluster around such operungs in a son of perverse fishingexpedition for prey.

N1hils appear as pools of inky blackness in the Shadowlands. They can open anywhere: elevator shafts, beneath rocking chairs, in cobwebbed corners or in the middle of busy streets. Usually they are no more than a few inches across, but some can be feet or even yards in diameter. Rumors as co the strange powers of Nihils abound; some say that staring into them causes hallucinations or strengthens the Shadow. After all, the warning agamsr gazing into the abyss was issued long ago, in the lands of the Uvmg....
Maelstroms
Seen bysome as the fist of Oblivion, Maelsmmu are monsoons that boil up from the Tempest and wreak havoc throughout the rest of the Underworld. These titanic
i	i
•	•
,mrm, also c.irry wuhm chem hordes of Spccrres who use the shriekmg wmds a, a
sorr (lf monsrrous m:ed. ndmg them m order co make war upon the C1t:,Jels anJ  Necropoh. Macbtrom, sweep :lway all char hes before chem: unprmected wraiths, 1 lared Haunrs, everything. Citadels ,md strong Haunts can wichmmd the assault, but pit)· any wra1ch caught ouc,ide the CiraJel gate,, when the wmds from rhe Tem­ pest start co huwl.
Bemg caught in a Mael,trom is akin to travelmil chruugh che worst ,ections o(
the Tcmpe5t. Soot fill, the air, and a wraith's Ve!)· Corpus is abraded away by the
,andblaHmg force of the wmd . All isdark. if not pitch-black, and there isa constant moaning cacophony from che reasts riding the sconn In man wap, rheSpectres arc the storm, for until they are defeated, the Maelstrom will nut recede.
Skinlands disasters and Maelstroms han! a peculiar cause-and-effect rclanon­ ship. One will mev11ably cau,e the other, chough which comes (ir:,r 1s open co de­ bate. TI1e detonation of the atomic device over Hiroshima niggered the Fifth Great Maelstrom, bur a smaller Maelsrrom can herald an mc1p1enr catasrrophe in the Skinlands, such as a building's collapse, a hurricane or a bomb's deronation
T e farS ores
It i said that far beyond the mises of rhe Sea of Sorrows he thousands upon thousands of 1 olated island realms collecuvely known a:. the Far Shores. Stygian history records char, long ago, the Ferrymen known as the Shining Ones laid down Byways leading to each of thc,e realms. Hope and faith drew wraiths ro these isles and since have continued coenrice chem, for these lands promise refuge from Oblivion as they model rhemselve • on rhe Hells and Heavem, Sukhavans, Edens, Zions and Valhalla, of countleSs culture,. The afrcrl1\'es created for, and perhaps by, lost souls
can be found m every ,hare and si:e throughout che Far Shores.
Uhimarely banking on the hope of relca-e from suffering, the beacons of Para­ dise, Nirvana, Purgatory and thousands of or her faith-based spiritual conditions shine hrightly m tht> stone, of mo,t of tht> few tra\'eler.; who have SOJoumed chere and hack. These stories can be heard not onl} in Srygia, but in mher deathlands as well, for che Byway, ro the Far Sh1,re< orij:linatt- in che death real ofallpeoples.

Not all the tale, inspire confidence in rhe gooJ intennons of the Far Shore,' leadership, however. Srories abound of t}'Tann1cal leaders demanding unquemoning obedience of the faithful and rormentinii the "ungodly"; of for,aken wraiths manacled to eachotht'r, locked upand long forgorren in tmy antechambers beneath cheground, or thrown 1nro rhe maws of  unnamable creatures as \acnfices ro chc "gods"; of sad1•• nc fanatics who encase chem,elves imd others in coffins of white-hot soubteel co purge their m1quities; and of ,cas choked with Spectre-harried aspirants waiting to be admmed to chc1r chosen 1,land,. Demonic bemg,, probably but not cercamly Moliated wranhs, torrure v1c11ms by thrusting Stygian steel stakes up through their
,pines,md planting them in p.'IOlsof acid that bubble up from unknown places wichin rhe Tempest. for many Stygian wrairh,. even the bright promi e of Transcendence 1, not enough to enrice them to  these places.
Thou and, upon thou and, of \Ha1ths inhahic the Far Shores realms, ofren g1v­ mg rise ro the horrific stones of cruel overcrowding and complete lossof ind1vidual- 1ty chat traveler, tell on rhe other s1d of the Sunle,, <::ea. But the picture 1s noc all
•===============
bleak. Breathtakingly beautiful island paradises host legions of pearly-limned Angehcs
and angel-like wraiths. Usually, these beings shelter the travel-worn from the Tem­ pest, heal them and enjoin them to remain. More rarely, they adopt weary travelers and ceach them the gentle ways of hope and Transcendence.
Ferrymen, Spectres,soul-pirates, slavers and strange creatures from ocher realms also make their appearances throughout the Far Shores isles. le is said that many Ferrymen still usher the souls of the dead to their just desrmat1ons among the Far Shore . and that some of the isles are nothing more than the Ferrymen's way sca­ cioru;. Some hold that theShining Ones whoforged th.eoriginal Byways cothe realms now rule many of the isles.
Tales of Spectres rakmg over the fanatical leadership of certain realms modeled afo:r the various hells - and even those modeled after the paradises - may indeed be rrue,as are the rumors of a brisk slave crade conducted bysoul-pirates under the gui:,e of religious recruitment and proselytizing.Soul-piratesoften useStygian Reapers as middle­ men in obcaming Lemures forsale as"converts" co vanous FarShores realms.
Necropoli
In all human cities there'sone part of town that, when mentioned by the living, inevitably produces the reaction, "You don't want to go there." Odds are, that's the local Necropolis.
A Necropolis is a city of the dead, a place where wraiths gather and Nihib open more frequently. In the Shadowlands, it is a teeming, bustling center of activity, as most of a city's wraiths can be found here at some point during the day-  or night. To the living, however, the streets and crumbling buildings that correspond to the Necropolis are unwelcoming and desolate, sported with abandoned lots and filled with the cries of scuttling rats and other vermin.
Most Necropoli can be considered colonies of Styg1a, and are part and parcel of the Hierarchy. Centered on a Citadel and divvied up into Domains, Hierarchy

35
Necmpoli arc relatively stable place for the dead to dwell. Rcneh>adc Necropoli, on rhe other hand, cend to be more along rough-and-rumble Imes, where any SCf"ice can be purcha!oe<l (for a price) and unwary wraiths always run the risk of bemg en­ slaved or annihilated.
Domains
A Domam is defined a:, the amount of territory a wranh or a Circle of wraiths can control. The Hierarchy does officially parcel ouc Domains in Necropoli, often marking the border.. of the rem tones controlled by the local Citadel with immobi­ lized Thralls Moliate<l mro flaming torches.
Unofficially, mo t wraiths claim the areas around their Haunts as their Do­ mains (or "turf'), and can back it up de facco 1f nor de Jure. While many of the,e Renegade Domains aren't recognjzcc.l by the local Hierarchy authorities, most Le­
gionnaires have the 1nrelligence to go mto them m force, or not at all.
Citadels
The largest and mongcsr Haunt in a Necropolis 1s called a Citadel,and it serves much the same function as a medieval castle. Strong points of defon,e agamst inva­ sion and centers of commerce, Citadels are the he-.irt, and mmds of their Necropol1. While most Citadels don't actually appear as castles or fortresses, they still stand as bamers agaimr assaults by Spccrrci., Renei;ad and Heretics.
Usually a Citadel will corTCSpOnd m the Skinlands to an abandoned warehouse or seriesof buildings, a stnpmine,a dumpOf someotherexpansedevoted to decayand dest:ruc­ non. In the Shadowland,, however, Citadelsareoften fon1fied with relic beamsand timbers, or reinforced wnh soulforged buttresses and bricks. Every Citadel il,constructed with Macl­ scrom., m mmd; a Citadel chat can't survive the fury of the storm is no Citadel at all.
Most Citadels are held by rhe I laerarchy, and have a mong presence from one or more of the Legions' military side.Theoreucally, Hierarchy Citadels are exclusive to Hierarchy cmzem, but m rhe Shadowlands hard-and-fast rule can get conve• nienrly blurry. After all, every hand rhat can hold a weapon is welcome when the Spectre come caJLng. Renegade and Heretic wraiths are often allowed m Citadel gates for purposes of commerce, if someone can be found to vouch for them.
ThereareRenegade and Heretic Citadels <;careered throughout the Shadowlan&,. Most are captured Hierarchy Citadels refurbished by their new owners; ochers are raised m areas so desolate and barren that it's not worth the Hierarchy's effort to come knock them down.
The estless
as.\1on tmnger thandeath and perils that make death seem came: these arc the basics o( life after death. In many ways it is an CX!l,t• ence of extreme:.. Ultimate destruction 1, the price of failure, rot eternal loveand beatific Transcendence arc real possibihtie, aswell. Life as a wraith, such as It is, can be a compendium of horrors Vis1om of the livmg are marred by death's rouch, and
36
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;a
even rhe freshest bloom appears motcled by corruption. The Underworld itself is dreary and deadening co the senses; bright color is rare here, :.ave for the ravenous flame of soulfire crystals or the blazing green of a Solicitor's eye. Nor does all of chis go unremarked upon, for the Shadow is omnipresent and always willing co make a bad situation worse. Oblivion threatens without and within, and many wraiths find it easiest simply co give up the struggle and let the Void claim them.

On the other hand, there are those whograsp the opporrunicy of a second exist­ ence.Seeing themselves as givena second chance to correct their mistakes in life, or perhaps just too stubborn to give in to Oblivion, these wraiths make the most of their unhves.
Eternal friendship and love are often promised m the Skinlands, but in the Shadowlands theycan become real. Powerand richescan begathered by wraiths ruthless enough to make those ascents; spincual transformation is sought by many as well. The lands of the dead beckon M'.lme to explore, as do the new realms of the Tempest and Far Shores that no mortals ever see. Gifted with the powers called Arcanoi, Restless can spend centuries honing theirskills or using chem to interact with the living. Many wraiths frequently cross the Shroud for a multirudeof reasons.There are those whoseek cofinish busmess left unattended in life, or ro protect those things and people that they love. Other wraiths simply meddle, playing poltergeist or invading mortals' dreams for the sheer thrill of it. P=ion of the Quick, vicariously sampling their joys and pleasure;, is a popular pastime, while vengeance from beyond the grave is also something that the
Restless practice -  if theycan geeaway with it. And there is always the struggle agamsc
Oblivion and its minions, a fight that some believe is for the sake of all creation. For wraiths such as these, death is only the beginning.
Metaphysics
Wraiths are caught in a tightrope existence between life and Oblivion, and their perspective reflects this. Just a Shroud's thickness away from the lands of the li\·ing, they are nonetheless eternally separated from those they love. On the other hand, each action, thought and word is a reaction against Oblivion's steady pull, shouting defiance into the Void. Ir is this balance between life and worse than death that the Restless maintain, for as long as they are able.
Touching the Skinlands is something that most wraiths aspire co, no matter what the Dictum Mommm commands. Doing so, though, is not always easy, as the nature of Restless existence makes reaching across the Shroud difficult. Objects in the Skmlan<ls have an odd sort of solidity to them as far as wraiths are concerned; it is nearly impossible for a wraitl, to move a real-world object, but for a minimal in­ vestment of Corpus, she can simply discorporate and walk right through it. For ex­ ample, if a wraith attempts to push on che front of a parked car, her touch will have no effect, and she will find herself unable to affect the car in the slightest. On the other hand, if the car's parking brakesuddenly slips and the car rolls forward, it will proceed to pass (nearly) harmlessly through her as she discorporaces.
Of course, wraiths have longsincediscovered ways to enforce their wills more con­ cretely on the real world. Certain Arcanoi allow Restless to affect or even enter the Skinlands; hence legends of poltergeists, apparitions and ghosts in the machine. All of these phenomena can be traced co wraiths extending their abilities across the Shroud.

-1
j;  ._.._=::c. m
■
While very lmlc m the real world can inflict la,cmg damage on a wraith's Cor­ pu,, in the Underworld 1r's a very different matter. Obiects existing m rhe Skmlands can be pa",ed through or bounced off of, while thmes ex1mng in the Underworld (relics, Amfact , llther wraiths, ere.) arc quire solid coany ghost. A steel blade can whirr through the Corpus of a wraith without causing lasting harm; a soulsceel sword m the hands of a Legionnaire, on the other hand, can cleft a ghost neatly m twain. Srygian steel (or ocher soulforged metals), Artifacts, relics, other wrauhs, Spectres, the dwellers in the Tempest, even the spirit magick of the living - all of these can affect a wraith concretely.
passionsand fetters
Pa<s1ons and Fetters are the things that define and maintain a wraith's exist­ ence. On a basic level, Fetters are the things in the Skinlands that a wraith care, 1bouc mo,t deeply, while Passions are the things that a wraith m t wants to do.
Feuen are what tie a wraith to the Shadowlands, g1vmg him anchors in the Skinlands chat he can use to resist Oblivion's pull. It 1s ma Ferrer that a wraith can Slumber and heal, and often 1c 1s easier for a wraith co use hts Arcanoi near his Fetters. On the other hand, if a Fetter 1s damaged or destroyed, the effects can be catastrophic. Furthermore, wraiths without Fetters cannot stay long m the Shadowlands, and so every wraith will smve his utmost to guard his Fetters.
Passions are those dictates which a wraith follows in death, the emotional im­ peratives chat drive and fud his existence. At its core each Passion has an emouon; by following his Passion's dictates (or by being m the presence of the feeling at the Pa ion's heart),a wraith garnen. the energycalled Parhos. Without Pathos, a wraith's Arcano1 will not function, nor will he be able to heal. Preventing a wraith from tendini:his Passions and Fetters, then, is perhaps the won.t slow torment that can be mf11cted on a wra1rh.
StatusandSocie
It 1, almost saJly predictable co note that the deaJ, having centuries to ponder the dilemmas and grand mysteries of existence, insm1d throw themselves into ngid social ,trucrures, ond spend a hui:c portion of their unhves making sure that the
,,ocial niceties arc properly maintained. Status m the RC5cles, community 1s based upon power, of course, but alsoage, expertise m the Arcanoi, and freedom of move• ment. An agl!d anJ rotenc wraith who maintains his Feccer<- and can therefore return ro the ShadowlanJs from Srygia 1s accorded more respect than a wraith of s1m1lar power anJ vintage whose Fetters are long since dust.
A rhe de.:;ides pass, a ,YTa1th can gradu:illy acquire morestatusamong the Jead, and social mobilit\ 1'etween "rank,"1s reasonably C!)mmon. On the other hand, the incense cl1queishnes, of ome wraiths (pamcularly the hidebound Gauntsof Srygia) bear, a running resemblance to the social dynamics of a middle-school rece5s, with wraiths rcfu,mg to deal with other wraiths who aren't of the right age, power or Arcan05 specialty. It ts the Stygian Gaunts m particular who maintain the ng1d so• c1al J1stmcnons l;,etween Domem and Gaunt, Enfant and Lemure, and Thralls and everyone else.

38
Social Status
Enfants - Enfants are che recently deceased who have not yet acclimated to che Shadowlands. They are u:.ually between a few days and a few weeks old, and are covered by a Caul of plasm which keeps them in a semi-dreamlike state, unable co see or hear fully what 1s going on. This Caul also obscures the Enfanc's thoughts and perceptions, so that her firstdaysof afterlife arc a somnolent, confused hazeof blurred
images and half-remembered voices. Unnl her Caul is removed by another wraith, che Enfant will be unable co see, hear or think clearly. A lucky few wraiths manage somehow co remove cheir own Cauls, generally those Enfants who possessed extraor­
dinary willpower in Lheir monal days.
Drones- These are the wraiths most Skinlanderssee ar the sices of hauntings. Without sentience or willpower, their mortal identities lmc to them, Drones are crapped at the sices of their deachs. They are unable ro do more than endlessly reen­ acc rheirdemises, robotically repeating their lase moments among the living. A Haunt populated by Drones 1s considered a gold mine by Reapers.
Thralls - These are among the most miserable wraiths m existence, held in servitude co other wraiths. Some have been captured and forced into slavery, while ocher.; have beensentenced to Thralldom for crimes real or imagined. A few wraiths have voluntarily sold rhemselves into Thralldom as a means of paying their debts. Although such indenture should have only a limited duration, many Thralls dis­ cover co their dismay chat this clause in cheir contracts is frequently ignored....
Thralls are usually manacled and may not travel freely without their masters. Though some variants on che Code of Charon forbid the mistreatment of Thralls, such abuses are rarely reported or punished. A Thrall's Shadow often cakes sadistic pleasure m the torment the Psyche endures, and far moreThralls are lost to Harrowings and the machinations of the Shadow chan are smelted down or freed.
Lemures - These are wraiths whose Cauls have been removed and who mil rerain most of their Fetters.They are generally quite young m terms of their afterlives, and are considered to be immature and undisciplined by older, established wraiths. Lemures make up the majority of wraiths encountered in the Shadowlands, as most wi5h to stay close to their Fetters.
Domems - Domems are wraiths who can no longer travel freely to the Shadowlands, and thus are restricted to Stygia and ocher such places of safety within the Tempest. Although most Domems are older wraiths, a number of them might JU.,t as well be Lemures, save for the face chat their Fetters no longer exist. A ,vraith deceased only five years whose Fetters are all destroyed in a fire will mstancly acquire Domem status, as she will no longer be able to maintain a presence in the Shadowlands. On the other hand, these "whippersnapper" Domems are hardly ac­ corded rhe respect granted their elders.
The usual recourse of many Domems is to travel to Scygia to work in the ever­ expanding Hierarchy bureaucracy. Renegades and Heretics don't have this option, and their transition to Domemhoo<l can lead chem anywhere from a full-rime search for Transcendence co the forges. "Domemizing" is a popular tactic among cercain Renegade gangs, whereby they nd local Necropoli of cheir most competent or vi­ cious officers by cargetmg and desrroymg their Fetters.

39
onlivion
1===============-•
Gaunts Old and powerful wraiths, Gaunts have man.1ged to mamraan their Fetters, allowing them to travel into the Shadowlands. The va t maionty of Gaunts have also journeyed deeply into the Ternpl!l>t, possibly to the FarShore llr even the Labynmh. Feared and re pecte<l for thetr knowledge and power, Gaunts wield influ. encc m the society of the dead d1sproporuonate to their numbers.
Deathlords - This powerful body of wraiths was originally created to become Charon's Senate,following the custom of the Roman Republic With the re-creanon ofStygia as an empire, each Deathlord was givena Legion as his charge and a throne from which to govern his subiects. Without Charon's iron guidance, however, the Dcathlords have fallen into disorder, using their Legmns to contcst with each other as eachstrives to declare himself the new lmperator of Sryg1a. As the D.!.,rhlord wnh the most:;ouls1s naturally rhe most powerful, rhe co-rulers ofSryg1a frequently meddle in mortal affam, co encourage greater numbers of deaths in wharever manners will swell the ranks of their own Legions.
eapers
A Reaper can be an Enfant's hest friend or woM n1ght1nare, depending upon circumstance. Technically, a Reaper is a wraith who cuts another wrn1rh free from his Caul, facilitating his "birth" into the Shadowlands. Many are ktnd soub looking to ease the rransmon that new Enfunts are making; others are recruiters for Heretic cults, Hierarchy Legions or Renegade gangs. These sorts of professional (and ama­ teur) Reapers tend to rreat their charges well, indoctrinating them m the laws of the Underworld and helping them adiu t to exhtence beyond the Shroud.
Other Reapers arc less ktnd. Slavemasters of the dead, they Reap new souls in order cosell them off to rhe highest bidder in the markers of the Necropoli. Soulsare the currency and raw marerials of the Underworld, and for many slavetaking Reap• ers, harvesting Enfanrs and throwing them into chains 1s strictly a business propost• non
Reape areoften found jockeying for posiuon m places like hospitals, prl!>Om or reurement homes. More enterprising one, like to ride ambulances, while tho,e gifted with the Arcanos Fatalism show an uncanny knack for being m the right place at the right ume. Reape will comrantly ,eek to establish claim, in placl!l> that yield rich trovesof iuls, andwhen such wealth • at stake, violence 1s hardly uncommon.
Grave Goods
Death can't remove the innate human hunger for material posse ions. Just be­ cause wraiths can't touch the obiecti, they once owned d<>el>n't mean that they no longer want ro, nor d<1C,. it prevent them from attempring to ,1cquire wealth on the other side of the Shroud. Even the dead have a thriving economy, though mutual fundsand stock options play no part in it R,1ther, 1t1san economy of souband rehc,, the two thmll$ chat can be held m the Underworld.
The vast maiority of objects in the Underworld are made from soub by one of two processes. Unlucky wraiths -  Thralls, criminab, Spectrei. and thme who arc simply unfortunate -  are sent ro the soulforge ro be hammered inw the com,, blade, and other implements of night-to-night existence. Somerimes these smelccd

50uls are mixed with what has been termed "death ore," material mmcd from the Veinous Stair, creatingspecialized materials for construction or warfare.
Orher victims are given co those skilled in the Arcanos Moliate, to be crafted into corches, furniture or other necessities of afterlife existence. The breakdown be­ rween the rwo forms of transformation is simple; anything that would have been rneral or stone in the Skinlands is replaced bysoulforged obiects, while things whose Sklfllands equivalemi. are wood or softer materials are made through Moliate.
There is another classification of objects in che Underworld: relics. These are memories of things, brought across the Shroud once their Skinlands originals have been dei.troyed. The stronger the emouon a relicgenerated before its destruction (a much-loved scuffed unacom, a despised leather belt used for disciplinary purposes), the more perfectly it rranslares to che Shadowlands after 1t finally crumbles LO dust. Mosr buildings in the Shadowlands are in fact relics; the remainder are those con­
struct<."li from soulforged materials.
Some wraiths of recent vintage are horrified by the nature of the Underworld economy, bur in the long run most of their moral objections are replaced by a sort of pragmatism. There are multiple moral justifications for this sort of ultimate objecti­ fic.anon of souls: every soul forged is another one that can't spiral down to Oblivion; man) soulforgers believe they hammer the Shadows right out of their materials; and
,o on, hut in Lhe end 1t becomes a matter of convenience and desire.
Sou
Souls are where it begins and ends in the Underworld. Souls are wealth, souls are resources, and souls are what feeds Oblivion. In order to prevent the last, the Deathlords (likeCharon before them) havedecreed chat weak, Passionless and coun­ terproductive souls be smelted Jown. A wraith who has become a Byway's paving smne1s in no danger of strengthening Oblivion; a Renegade who is transformed into
a cushion won't ambush Legionnaires anJ help send them to Harrowings. Pointing our rhe face chat the soul-trade also makes cerram wraiths very wealthy indeed is con.,idcred diclass€.
elics
A relic isa memory given shape in the Underworld. The only objects across the Shroud not formed from souls, relics are chose things that inspired great passion in lifo, and which linger on in death. No longer in existence in the Skinlands, relics can survive for centuries in the Shadowlands.
Just because something isdestroyed m the Skinlandsdoesn't mean that ic auto­ matically becomes a relic. In order co cross the Shroud, an object must have inspired strong emotion before its destruction. Love, hate, fear; the specifics are immaterial.
Sniff1..-d animals and hattered baseball glovesare among the most common relics, but soare k111ves, handcuffs and buildings like schoolhouses and prisons. It IS the strength ofemouon chat an object invoked chat dictates whether or nor it will return as a relic even after 1cs Skinlands form has been destroyed or buried.
The creation of a relic is a simple process: An icem char provoked strong feeling "d iroyed or buried. Thmgs that didn't inspire one way or the other don't become rdics; for example, there are very few relic cuna fish cans beyond the Shroud. An

41
oolivion	r•
object that does become a relic reappear in the Shadowland!. after its destruction or
bunal, usually on che precisespot where it mer its maker. Often relics wiU materialize in the Underworld at the same time their owner does, almost as 1f they have been waiting for him ro come along and cake possession of them. It is customary co make a gift of a relic to one's Reaper upon Harvesting, particularly if said Reaper IS kind enough co refrain from selling the Enfant intoslavery.
Even relics fade away, eventually. The stronger the wellspring of care that cre­ are<l them, the longer they lase and the more solid they are. In the end, though, all but the most potenr lose their solidity and slowly dissolve, unlamented.
Most relics aren't "useful" in the senseof servmg as Shadowlands survival equip­ ment. Little things chat meam a great deal to someone- asigned copy of Something Wicked This Way Comes, a favorite locket, a teddy bear treasured m youth and saved for one'sown children- make up the vast majority ofrelicsfound in the Shadowlands. Relics of this sort tend not to last more than a few decades before fading.
More potent relics, such as working computecs or firearms, functioning auto• mobiles and the like, are much rarer and often have Underworld existences mea­ sured in under 10 years. Dismissively labeled "coys" by Gaunts and Domems, relics like this need investments of Pathos before they can function as they did in the Skinlands. A relic computer char hasn't beenfueled with Pathos isa rectangular box; a relic computer that's been loaded with Juice can work wonders.
There are also relics of legendary status which have lasted centuries or even millennia. Brutus' dagger and da Vinci's doodle pad are examples of things that have inspired the necessary passion to maintain their existences rhrough the centuries.
Soulforged Goods
The  forges of the Amficers are always hungry for more souls. There are a great many items desperately needed by Stygian society that don't appear in quantity as relics - swords, cmderblocks and the like-and which muse be manufactured some­ how. The only resource that fies the bill, unfortunately, is the plasm that makes up rhe Corpora of the dead.
Soulforging itself consists of draining a wraith of as much sentience and will as possible without tempting Oblivion, then holding her over crystals of soulfire until her Corpus becomes soft and malleable. Ar this point, an Amficer will set to work with his hammer, pounding the unfortunate wraith intoan entirely new form.Skilled soulforgers (usually chose associated with che Artificers' Guild) can create works of amazingdelicacy anti beauty, as well as the girders and breasrplaces necessary to fend off Oblivion's assault1>.
Occasionally soulforgers will alloy rawsoul-stuff with the death ore mined from the Veinous Stair or salvaged from the Tempest. Stygian steel, consisting of plasm, death ore and supposedly scrapings from the Labyrinth's walls, is by far the mongest substance knt)Wn in the Underworld. Other mixtures have different propercie., de­ pending upon their ingredients. Soulsteel is the slang term forsmelted wraiths uncut with any other substance, and this 1s by far the most common product of the forges.

Soul-forged items rend to break down much more slowly than relics, having a permanency and solidity to them chat is much valued m the Underworld. On che orher hand, many wraiths claim to hear their smelted goods moaning or weeping
s.lcly, and a few have gone so far as to swear that they've heard their precious Arti• facts speak.
The soulforging process is irreversible, and it ts fervently prayed by masc wraiths chat a smelted soul's consciousness is destroyed forever by che process.
Artifacts
Artifact is a catch-all term for items in the Underworld that possessspecial pow­ ers. Certain relicsare also Artifacts, but many Artifacts are created across the Shroud. Exceedingly rare and highly sought after, powerful Artifacts are treasures beyond pnce in rhe lands of che dead.
Relic Artifacts are difficult to create and more difficult co hang onto. The pas­ sion of multitudes of Quick ts needed to empower a relic thus; also needed is the belief on the part of those mortals that the object is in some way special. Then the relic-co-be must be destroyed, freeing it to cross the Shroud and manifest in the Underworld. Excalibur, the Grail, the Ark of the Covenant and the original Mme. Guillotineare all examples of relic Artifacts. Unlike most relics, relic Artifacts never fade away.
The other variety of Artifact is the soulforged sort. Items crafted in the Artifi­ cers' forges and invested with Arcanoi, these Artifacts are more common but only relatively so. Masks of office and Anacreons' swords are often Amfaccs of this kmd. Because of the great personal cost of making them, soulforgers are very particular as to whom they craft Anifacts for.
Technically, any soulforged item is an Artifact, but no one ever refers to a soulforged brick as an Artifact. Only unique and powerful items are actually labeled "Artifact ."
Standard Operating Equipment
There are certain items with which every Stygian wraith is familiar. These are the basic coolsof existence across the Shroud, and any Enfant who evades the Reap• ers will learn about them in short order.
Weapons - For reasons of economy, it 1s the classic weapons chat work best m the Underworld. Relic guns require an investment of Pathos, and relic ammuni• taon is 1n shore supply,so most wraiths fall back on swords, knives and the like. It is simple to craft blades and armor from souls, and many wraiths frankly prefer the panache that come from having a sword ac their hip or a dagger in their boot.
Ornate weapons are seen asstatussymbols, and rehc or Artifact blades are highly rn: ,J.Small wars between Necropoli have been known to start over the disposirion of legendary Artifact weapons.
Oboli- :rhebase unit of Stygiancurrency is the obolus. Forged from a :;mgle 50ul, an obolus is the only legal tender in Stygian territory. Most Renegade and Her­ etic bands use chem as well, out of a lack of an acceptable alternative.
Oboli theoret1cally can be chopped up for change, but bits of a single oholus that are separated rend to re-form as soon as they can. Scattered bits of random chan1ie, on the other hand, never coalesce. Certain moresensitive wraiths have given

43
upon the notl()n of half-oholi entirely as they ponder the effect that hemg quartereJ has on smehed souls.
Manacles and Chains -  The well-dressed Reaper's tools of the trade, cha1m and manacle arc used m a variety of way throughout the Underworld. Their pri­ mary funcnon, of course, 1s w bind and imprison wraiths. Many chains are empow­
ered to prevent bound wraiths from using their Arcanoi co escape; othersare used as fashion acccs"<lrtes by debonair Domeim. Few obJects in the Underworld are as thor­ oughly loathed as Stygian chains; all Renegades, almost every Heretic and even a great many Stygian Lemures see them as reminders of the ever-hungry forges.
Mask -  Extremely fashionable among many wraiths,soulforged masksserve to depersonalize offices. Useful as a way 10 command allegiance to an office as or­ pooed to an office-holder, the masksof Hierarchy officials are passed along rosuccc,. s1ve holders of posts. Even rhe Deathlords are known only by the masks and other badges of their offices; tt maners little which wraiths wear them.
Deathmarks
Centuries ago, the Ferrymen noticed that certain wraiths arrived in the Shadowlands with strange markings on 1he1r Corpora, visible through the useof the Arcanos Fatalism. These marks were clas,1fied according to the patterns they made, and there seemed to be veral varieri . Those who could see rhem suggested that they were like birthmarks on rhe living, although the rc.-,cmblance ended there.Some marks seemed to be carved into the very Corpus of rhe affected wraiths, some were raised slightly like scars, and others were merely changes in surface coloration, like tattoos.
Originally thereseem1.-d ro bea distinct correlation between the patterning and the typeof person the wraith had been in life,and the Ferrymen saw thisas bemg the best indicator of how each wraith should seek Transcendence. Tlmc and circum­ Hance, though, have conspired to chang.: thisdramaucally. With the ban1Shment 1,f the Herettcs and the denouncement of Transcendence 1s a falsehood, the ongmal purpose of the marks wa ignored m favor of classifying wraith accordmg to the manner of their deaths. Now wraiths arc branded with deathmarks as a means of marking them che property of a particular Deathlord. Some Restless have taken thb to extremes, Moliatilll! themselves in elaborate pattern to proclaim their loyalty 10 their master.;·md m1scre,se:..
The Sociefyof theDead
uman bemg.,are social antmals,anda little thing likedeath doe,n'c change this face. There is a complex and ancient society among the R tlcss, complete with wars, polmcking, religious fanaticl!im, commerce and all pf the other rhmgl, that can be found on che Strl.>et, of the cmesof the livma,Wratths whounder..t.md and calcc
III adV'!ntage of 1t:; rub cm prosper immeasurably, while those who
J fail to 1,,msp tts baste lessons feed the forges or the Vrnd.
Ghostly society is an odd collecuon of that which has gone before in the land, of the livmg. Srygia is hasd on a classical Athenian ideal, overlaid with a Roman
(!1apter11\'0:  ettin
Republic structure with rrappings of empire and coated with modem notions layered over standard European feudalism. Astute political observers have labeled the entire thing"a mess," and few disagree. Complicating maners is rhe fact that many Stygian wraiths date back centuries and have nor seen fir to modernize their viewpoints. A discussion of Restless politics can be a lesson in living - or unliving - history.

Circles
Circles are tightly knit groups of wraiths, bound together socially for mutual protec­ tion from slaversand Spectres.The Circle in many ways replaces the fumily as the funda­ memal unit ofsociety in the Underworld, standing by its members through triumphs and turmoil. Wraiths independent ofCircles rend to beeither the lastsurvivors ofCircles that have dllimtegrated, or suicidal in the extreme. A wraith without a Circle has no one lO watchhu;ghostly back,and wall probably not longescape the perilsof wraithly existence.
Most Circles range in size from three wraiths lO JO, bur seldom more. Members ofa Circleare usually bound by the Haunt (or Haunts) theyshare, not unlike several mortals clustered together in a group house. It is not uncommon for members of a Circle to run the gamut of Underworld factions, often leading to internal dissension strong enough to tear the Circle asunder.
politic ng
With hundreds of years stretching our before them, wraiths excel at poht1cal games. As open warfare among the dead pracrically embraces Oblivion, wraiths cry to move against their enemies more subtly, tempnng neither fate nor theirShadows. However, just because the maneuvers of the aged dead aren't overt, it doesn't mean that rhey can't be deadly. The forges and the Void both receive their fair share of those who underestimated their opponents' power, or the consequences of defear.
factions
Oblivion
-. --	oughly speaking, the Deadland) of the Western world are split intu three mutually antagonistic factions, though this hardly
1 •	means that every wr-.mh I!> up in arms aga1mt her neighbor.
I	I Most Restless are content to deal wnh their compatriors on a
j one-on-one basis, regardless of political affiliation. However, each facrion has its fanatics and rabble-rousers, and ex_pres.smg
====-='· sympathy for a Renei,tade m front of the wrong Legionnaire can be a one-way ticket to an eternity as an 3lihtray.
Tht> Renegades arc rebels, pming them elves against any who w0uld fence chem in, be chat Hierarchy, Heretics or other Renegades. Some are Hierarchs who grew tl1S11lu iuned b)· the sy,tem, other. fugitives seeking refuge, while their brother. m arms may be thug , political radicals or simply free thinkers. Whatever nobler ideal; some may hold about a slavery-free Styg1a, an increasing number of Renegades are simply malcontents well-acquainteJ with violence and its many apphcatiom. For every Renegade who will infiltrate a Citadel in hopes of putting its soulforge out of commission, there's another who will gladly sell the returning hero to slavers.
The Hereucs are tho;e whoseek a higher state, perhaps in Tran endence, per­ haps m the Far Shores, perhaps somewhere not yet known. The name is a collective term for the many di,parate cults that espouse religious beliefs before poliucal ones, anJ was first given to them by Charon after the Shming Onesdebacle. Occasionally these groups band together aga1mt v1olenc Renegades or the domineering H1erarchy agencs, but these occasiom are rare. Heretic cul usually spend more time battling each other over doctrine and potemial followers. They run the gamut from fanatical holy warriors and zealots to gentle caregivers and reachers, and everything in be, tween Their common bonJ is their unshakable faith in their beliefs, whether ther be m the Mother Godd=. apanthL-on, Chao, Incarnate, the Judeo-Chmtian Yahweh or demes unknown to the mortal world. Above all, the Heretics seek convert,, as each group 1s com·mced that 1t and 1t alone knows the secrets of afterlife. Sadh·, many of these are dupes of Spectres or worse yet, the "gods" of the Far Shores.

The Hierarchy the oldest and most p()werful side of the triangle, cla1mmg ics auchont) from the departed Charon. Its lords demand respect from all, and u e the Legions co back up such requesLs. While rhe Hierarchy may be the most srnble, it 1s also the most stifling and conservative faction. The walls of irs Necropoh hold out the Spectres, but at a terrible co,;t. The average wraith on the meet 1s likely to bea H1erarch, not much different from the average law-abiding mortalcitizen. Hierarchy wraiths accept the Scygian laws, along with che offenses and the mistakes of the 11dmini trntion, a, the best means of protecuon from fanaticsand cheShadow-Eaten.
On enegactes
My whole life I played lry cherules. Paid my raxes,obeyed the speed limit -you ,u1mt 1t. Now I'mdead,and they·re celling me I hale codo rhe same rhmt"all ot·eragain,fom ,er! No  way, man Nogoddamned way.
-Amos Coulter, Renegade, Doyle's Irregulars
"Renegade" is most frequently used as a broad-brush tcnn to descrihe those \I/ho stand our,ide the Hierarchy, yet do not belong coan organ1ied Heretic cult. Most so• called "Renegades'' find the rcnn msultmg, and prefer a variety of name ranging (rom "Outsiders" to "Our of my way." Generally Renegades run m quote-unquote g- ng,,though these gangs can take the form of rampaging freikorps, street gangs or
pac1f1sric communes.
There is no such thmg as the "average" Renegade. There are as many reasons for,randing on the outside as there are Renegades. Some are reacting to the Hierarchy's repugnant soul-slavery, while to others it matters little who's in charge..• as long as
,e's not the Hierarchy. Many were rebels in life and simply don't want to change,
Some are fugitives from Hierarchy Justice, preferring the precarious life of a refugee corhe security of etemicyas a soulsteel lawnornament. Among the Renegade:; is also where one finds che thugs who simply prefer cumng their own paychecks from By­ way robbery as opposed to receiving them from a Legionnaire capcain.
No small portion of the gangs are mercenary bands, sellmg their sword, and services co any who can afford to pay their fee, including Hierarchs temporarily scrapped for Legionnaires. On the other hand, many Renegade communities are peace­ fulcollectives, crymg to burrow as far into hiding as possible. It is this very disorgani­
zarion of purpose which hamstrings certain Renegades' periodic efforts to present a unified front, and which unwittingly serves the Hierarchy.
A prime source of tension between the Hierarchy and rhe Renegades is simple class warfare. A cercain amount of snobbery is part and parcel with living in Scygia as a member of the obvious "ruling" class, and many Hierarchs believe il robe their right and privilege to give rhe Renegades hell as chey are socially inferior. For some Renegades, the thoughr of being able to take down a Hierarch iust to wipe that supenor smile off his face warms the plasm evenon the chilliest nigh . On rheother han<l, theni ,s a great deal of barter and soul-traffic between individual members of the facrion5, and even Legionnaires will often cur deals with local Renegades if they

<lon'r think their superiors are looking.
OnHeretics
Look around )'OU and ceU me chat youdonot trul)' believe yourself m Hell, my friend. Our lead.er knou-s che way co a beuer place. and it would grieiie me grearly co sojourn there knowing that you remained here among Ute damned.
-  Darnel Avrams, Shepherd, The Sons of the New Masada
The tenn "Herenc" was first used by Charon after the discovery of the FarShore • true state. However, as each cult sees itself on the crue path to salvation, it simply assigns the name "Heretic" to all of the other, misguided cults with whom it shares the Deadlands. To the Hierarchy and Renegade:;, of course, it makes little difference what rhe Heretics call themselves, and the tenn is used only,lightly more frequently than "chose loonies."
If the Heretics could ever iron out their differences and present an ecumenical from, they could prove a formidable foe to the Hierarchy. For many Heretics, the power of their beliefssustains them as surely as the Pathos paycheck sustains certain of their Legionnaire counterparts. However, the conflict of belief systems between cults prevents this from ever being a possib,liry.
47
To outsider.., the rca"Kms the Hereuci, b1clcer seem lilcc a ,1mple maner of pig­ headedness, a refusal to admit that anyother sect's beliefs could be as viable as their own. However, this is toosimplistic an explanation given the varietyand complexity of the belief sy,rems at worlc. No matter how friendly or open-mmded a panicubr cult member might be, she will defend her sect to Oblivion's doomep as bemg the right and only way to take che next spiritual seep. In a war in which the stakes are '-<l h,gh, there is no room for tolerance toward the enemy. le has often been quoted chat the one who controls the religion controls the region The Herencs carry chis creed as a corollary co their own espoused beliefs, and wish to lead their fellow Rcstles. to Heaven - but on their terms.
For now, the various cultssquabble as much with each other as w,th the Hierar, chy. The question of Transcendence is the main bone of contenrion mosr Heretics have withStygia, as Charon had all but declared it co bea lie at the unmaslcmg of the Shining On .Smee then, many H,erarchs haveabandoned the notion ofTrarucen dence as a fairy tale and see che Heretics as spreading propaganda that 1sdetrimental co the health of Stygian society. Heretics hotly refute this argument as evidence chat the Hierarchy 1s Just afr.11d of losmg power as o;ouls Transcend.
The most famous "heresy" is that of the Fishers, whose involvement with Scyg1a is well,lcnown and recorded. Since then, a number of other such cults have sprung up, most of chem defined according co their proselyuzing habits.
On The Hierarchy
We are ma war for rhe sake of all rhate:rucs, and wedon't hat-erk luxury of dissent. If:you'renotwrthus, :you'reagainst us, and if :,011'reagainst 115, :you're W(ll'/cing forOblivion.
-Genevieve Buclc, Anacreon of Violence, Manchester N1.-cropolis
This monolithic organization 1s the oldest and longesr-lived of any in the Deadlands. Founded by Charon as means of unifyinl? and ordering the chaotic after• life, at has grown intoastratified, calcified bureaucracy "led by the 1:xmhng Deathlor<l> and based upon the enslavement of thousands of souls for use as Thralls or raw mate• rials. Criminalizmg any opposition and crushing those who stand in their way, the armored LCJ?ions of the Hierarchy have rolled acros., the oceans to malce sure th.It Scyg1an law IS maintamed throughout the Deadland,. The focr chat many wraiths find Stygian law objecuonable is not open to debate, as mos1 Hierarchs sec them­ selvc:. as personally holding the line against Oblivion. Renegades are seen ru; wanr mg ro open the Citadel gates coSpectres; Heretics would have everyone contem• plate rheLr navels whale the Maelstroms howl. No, no matter how unpleasant some of its aspects might be, according tc> loyal Stygian c1mens the Hierarchy b the bc,t bet the world has not to be swallowed by the Void.

In spite of the many flaws, the Hierarchy is perhaps the best chance an average wraith has to survive threats ofSpectres, Maelstroms and other monsters, and one of the few sources of law and order co be found in the chaotic Underworld. Wraiths who had been average, law-ab1dmgc1tizensin lifefound that the Hierarchy provided a lifestyle similar to what they were used to, giving them a comforting refuge when all el-.e in their new existence was strange. These common cimens are an unseen face of the Hierarchy, which may be lcnown ro other wraiths only through the Le• gionnaire poinring his relic sword or the sadistic bureaucratic servant.
Cliaterlwo: ettin
While che 1-ughest levels of the Hierarchy are indubitably corrupt (as any Ren­ egade or Heretic will gladJy inform you), the lower levels h::ive managed to escape a
!(Teat deal of the infection. Here can be found the idealists, the earnest and hard­
w,,rkmg wraiths pushmg papers or keeping the peace on a Necropolis block.The few
,tlcru1srs who have managed to make it to positions of power view Scygia a a once­ mighty empire fallen on hard times. While the Hierarchy has its flaws, Charon still had good intentions and ideas, and they should continue to uphold those ideals, even 1f che Deathlords have forgonen them.
Must wraiths are part of the Hierarchy, and 1t controls most of the Necropoli and Citadeb in cheShadowlands. Many Byways are Hierarchy-builtand maintained, and Scyg1a con tandy sends patrols out to keep thesesafe routes clear ofSpectres and Rcnega,les. Of course, the definitton of"safe" depends upon whom is asked, particu•
l.irl) if that per,;on 1s a Renegade.
T e legions
In theory, every Stygian citizen belongs to a Legion. Delineated along the lines of each wcaith's demise, the Legions serve as a way of classifying the dead. Each Le­ gion i, ruled by a Deathlord, who commands obedience from all within hi. troop. Aurhomy descends from the Deathlord or lady in a quasi-military chain of com­ mand, w1rh civilian Legionnaires given military ranks in an effort to place them withm the Legion'sstructure.
The bureaucratic side of the Legions is just as important as the military, and mo.t members c)f a Legion aren't ouc in armor smiting Spectres and Renegades. In­ stead, they are processing soub, enforcing laws, caking census, repairing Necropoli, educating Enfants and otherwise keeping Stygian society runningsmoothly.
Then again, there are the martial a:,peccs to each Legion. Byway patrols, Spt.-ctre­ hunung expedirions, Renegade-busting and other, similar activities necessitate a stand­ ingn11lm1ry presence among the dead,and each Deathlord does his best to obllge.This1s the face of the Legions thar Renegades and Heretics arc most farruliar with, and these outsiders ofren m -rake rhc military side of the Legion for the Legion as a whole.
A, the Deathlords jockey for power, clashes between Legionsare becommg more fn,quent. While thmgs are a long way from open warfare on the streets ofSrygia, out m the hinrerlands bushwhackings and ocher inter-Legion unfncndliness has been knu\\'Tl to happen. A lone Centurion of the Legion of Paupers who wanders into a haunr trc.-qucnted by soldiers of the Grim Legion can be asking for trouble, depend­ ingupon how relations herween cheSmiling Lordand the Beggar Lord are that week. There are other, lesser organizauons also known as Legions, though these are gcncrnlly orders of merit. For example, the Fifth Legion, a.k.a. the Legion of the Black l lawk, is an elite military corps created by Charon from the finest soldiers in each of rhe Dcathlords' Legions, while the Online Legion contains Hierarchy wraiths skilled ar the Arcanos Inhabit. Some of the Deathlords also have Legions-within• Legion:;, such as the Beggar Lord who honors his bodyguards with the ride of the Lc!(ion of the Onyx Tear. It is generally assumed that when the term "Legion" is used, •t is one of the eight Legions of the Dcachlor<ls that is being referred to. If a wraith w1shes to mention one of the smaller organizations,she will usually call it by

ns full name just to avoid confusion.
o livion
,r w--
legion anks
Legionnaire - legionnaires arc the !?TIJnt,of the UnJerworld, ho!Jmg the lowest ranlc m the Legions. lo,c have no fixed Junes, hut imteaJ are rea,,1gned from Necropolis w Necropolis as the net.-d arilcs. Patmls gcne111lly consist of Legionnaire:; as well.
Centurion - A Ccnrurton 1,,1 wr.mh \\ ho ove eei. a parrol and the Leg1<m• na1re, who ,crve inn.Centunnns arcempowered repre,cncac1ve,ofSryg1a, and have cnns1dernhlt> leeway m the ficlJ. Very lew Centurion,,, once they've t>cgun the long climb up Ire m Lell1onna1rc ,tatu,, arccomcnc to remam at th1, post for long.
Marbhal - Appomrcd hy the local Anacreon, a Marshal 1s responsible for a sn1.1lt Domam ouc,1Je of a C1t.1del. M:mhal, u,ually have muluple patrols a,,1gned to them, mJ each rcpons Jm,cdy to her Overlord.
Reg1mt - E...scntially a well-rrU',ted Marshal, a Reg,mc b grantt.>J responsibility farther from the ln,:,1I Citadel ind hcn,e more independence. Hierarchy Domains that arcn"t cent<·rcd on .1 Necropol1> are u,u.1lly under the 1unsd1cmin of a Regent.
Overlord  The second uer nf authority in a Citadel, an Overlord is usually an Anacrc,,n\ as,1,tant "ho 1, cru,rt..J to make policy Jec1,1ons. Overlord, can be as,umed m ,peak tor their Anacreons, anJ otrcn Cll\lrdinare .-ill of the parrols and lesser Hier,m.:hy officials in .i Necropoli,.
Anacreon - The A.n1crC<\n of :i given Legion 1, rhe h1ghe,c-rankmg member of char Legion w1th111 a C1caJel. E.1c.h Nccrnroti is ruled by a council of seven Anacreom (the Legion of Fate d1,J,1111s 111voh-ement 111 local pol1t1e>}, anJ an Anacreon ha, supreme p<.1wcr over mem1'er, of her Legion w11hm her 1un 1cmm.
Barg ests
The:.e bloodhounds oi the JcaJ were once wraah, rhem,clves before they were selected for the K-9 unic, of the Le wns 61ch Ill"\\ har hes1 1s Moli:iceJ mto an
houndltke creature and then lobotomtzed by having a specially prepared muzzle of Scygian steel grafted to its Corpus. The result 1s an obedient "dog" that answer, only to che person holding its leash and whistle. Many are used to track che Shadow­ Eaten, while ochers are simply used as shock troops, much to the dismay of their cargecs. When they catch the scent of a Spectre or other quarry, barghests (they always hunt m pairs or packs) will set up a howling so fierce that it can be heard by the living. Renegades with a scientific bent hypothesize that these hounds are actu­ ally using a modification of the Arcanos Keening, but very few wraiths whogo out to do field research on the matter ever return co publish their findings.
Cnarons' law
The Hierarchy has its own law system, with Charon's ancient code of the Dicrum Morcuum at its center. This code (literally crarulated, "The Word of the Dead") was createdduring the Middle Ages to regulate che traffic between mortalsand wraiths. Many wraiths inflicted themselves on the living through skinriding, nightmares, materializing and any number of other horrors. Others masqueraded as demons to deluded would-be sorceren;.With little organized resistance or threat of punishment, these wraiths contin• ued their games until the Church responded with exorcisms and wardmgs.

Charon determined to put a stop to this, and imtituted the Code of Charon. It sought to prorect the living from the abuses of the dead by purring a heavy interdic­ tionon all interaction with mortals. It also made very clear chat only Charonand his empowered designates were permitted to gather and dispatch souls.
The Code iscontinually updated, and theStygian Hierarchy continues to maintain it. M06t Shadowland agentsdon't have rimeor energy to read it, let alone enforce it, and simply concentrate on keeping the peace. Many suspect char as long as they keepup the supply of souls to the homeoffice, it won't matter how many infractions they let go.
Jhe ju iciary
Hierarchy law was created as much to punish as to protect. Most Restless follow the dictates quietly, much as they followed Skinlands law in their breathing days. However, there is an element of fear that comes with obedience, a fear which the Hierarchy does not hesitate to capitalize on in the name of law and order. Stygian officials are quick and frequent co crack down on law-breakers, while many of the overworked Legions and other Hierarchy agents m the Shadowlands tend to ignore minor lawbreakers in the interests of keeping the peace and going after bigger fish.
Those whodo break the law come before a Hierarchy magimace costand trial. A wraith may appeal to appear before a "higher" magistrate, but appeals are rarely heard unless the accused has some standing in the local Hierarchy. In some cases a judgment may be appealed co rhe Hand of Fate, and should the Ladies of Fate over­ rum the decision, the Hierarchy will in mosc cases abide by che new ruling. Few know what happens to the defendants in cases that are not dealt w1ch so politely.
Sentencing and punishment
If a wraith breaks a law and is found guilty of a cnme, at least m Stygian terri­ tory, she is punished for 1t. Obviously certain punishment:J,, like the dead, penalty,
51
mean little to those already Jead, and exiling offenders to the Tempest only risks strengthening Oblivion further. As a result, the Hierarchy has become a lircle more creative in its punishments.
Enthrallment - TI1eoffender is chained with Srygian manacles, making her the Thrall of another wraith, usually a Hierarchy official. This is the most common punishment in Stygian territory, though by no means the harshest.
Torture - Wraiths can heal most ordinary wounds, but Stygian torture is designed to scar the offender for all eternity. Devices of Srygian steel inflict un­ dreamed-of pain, and these wounds arc extremely difficult to heal. Some wraiths emerge from their punishment with their Corpora permanently marred by rhe expe­ rience, but the worst wounds are often the unseen ones. To a creature of Passions, scars left on the Psyche are far more devastating than physical wounds.
Imprisonment - Sometimes criminals are jai.led in Shadowland reflections of mortal prisons, with reinforced wallsand bars of Srygian metal to prevent escape. This devastating punishment works in several ways. First of all, it keeps the wraith from visiting her Fetters or renewing her Passions, weakening her ability to resist her darker half. In addinon, when a wraith is left alone in the dark to brood, her Shadow will inevitably redouble its assaults on her Psyche.

Branding- Branding isa way to mark criminals, effectivelyostracizing them from society and warning other would-be miscreants from attempting the same. The size and shape of the brands varies according to the severity of the crime. Suious crimes (assuming the offender escapes the forges or the Masquers) result in the of­ fender wearing her brand on her forehead, exposing her to relentless scorn.
Discorporation - This is the most severe punishment wtthin the Hierarchy's power. The offender is transported to the nearest forges and smelted down for soulgoods. Alternately, some criminals are turned over to wraithsskilled in Moliate and reshaped into other "useful" implements.
Outsiders
The Guilcts
he Guilds began as loose "colleges" among the dead to teach the wraithly arcs of Arcanoi to those who used or wished to pursue mastery in them. Later, the Guilds evolved into political organi­ zationsofFreewraiths,existing outside of the Legions and acquir• ingenough power in Stygiansociety to makeeven the Deathlorrls nervous. Like their medieval monal counterparts, the Guilds guarded their secrets jealously, cloaking themselves in layers of  mystery that not even many of their company could see past.
While most Stygian wraiths believe the Guilds are longsince broken, there are actually I6 Guilds currencly in existence, each specializing in a panicular Arcanos. Each has a lingering reputation from days of old, whether it choo:;es ro acknowledge it or not. Members of certain Guilds are still respected from their favored days under Charon, while others are hated for their affiliations with the echoes of the past.
J e Warof ilieGuil s
The Dicrum Morrw,m did much to sour the Gutlds' relations with Charon. For Guildwrairhs, Charon's decree barring interference with the Skmlands wasa terrible blow co their livelihoods and amusements. Sandmen, Proctors, Spooks, Haunters, Puppeteers and smaller factions wichm the ocher Guilds who depended on contacL wnh the mortal world suffered the most, and resolved not to rake rhe maner lymg down. Their response was to continue their work as if nothing had happened, a move that did not endear chem co the Hierarchy. Contention over contact wirh the living would become one of the stickiest points in relariouships between the two groups for centuries to come, and nearly led to open revolt on several occasions.
During the Middle Ages, the Guilds came intoprominence.Those wraiths pro­ ficient in their chosen Arcanoi organized themselves as mortal craftsmen did, offi­ cially cochfying themselves as Guilds. Older groups, such as the millennia-old collec­ nveofsoulfotgets, quicklyadapted to the new paradigm, and soon the Guilds were a permanent focture on the political landscape. Tight symbiotic relationships devel­ oped between many of the Guilds and Scygia, with Freewraiths providing ervices m exchange for wealth, power and status. However, since the wealth of Scygia flowed from the Artificers' forges, they claimed primacy among the Guilds and often sub­ verred other Guilds' agendas to their own. Resentment bred among other Guilds, boiling over mto an unofficial war thatstretched from the Shadowlands to the meets of Scyi;:ia. This conflict, called the War of the Guilds, lasted from 1096 to 1354. While there were never battalions of Guild members on the streets, what happened hehmJ closed doors was another matter entirely. The Mncmoi lured the Sandmen into th!.! war by claiming thac Charon planned to raze a number of theatres in favor of soulforgei;, while the Monitors directed all and sundry to even the besc-protecce<l Fetter:;of theiradversaries. A Chantcur who enjoyed the favor of a certain Anacreon would "persuade" him (with assistance from her Solicror accomplice) tO investigate the matter of Artificers forging weapons that were not ending up in the armory, m hopes of sentencing the embezzlers to their own forges. Other Guilds with Skinland cnnracts (Proctors, Puppeteers, Spooks and Haunters) set them against the mam enemy, meanwhile taking advantage of the chaos co tweak their Guilds' secondary cnem1es. Artificers fought back by creating a number of lovely new objer.s d'art from the Corpora of their enemies, delivering them as their answer co the apocryphaI fish wrapped in newspaper.

The war was begun to remove the Artificers from power, but ended up making 1h1:m srronger than ever. A numhcr of"accidents" needed to be disp.ised of, and the
forges were the obvious choice. Eventually, thmgs ground to a stalemate and with
53
,===============-
increased interference from the Deathlords looming, a cessation of hostilities made the best sense. In the lacter months of 1354, the Compact of the Guilds was ratified by the 13 Greater Guilds. Of those excluded, the Solictors and Alchemists were considered co be unimportant, and were therefore not invited to sign, while the Mnemoi were so thoroughly disliked by chis point that they were purposely snubbed.
The Compact called for an end to all conflicts between the Guilds. A Council of Guilds would be formed to adjudicate disputes between Guilds or opposing Guild members. The Amficers, as the Eldest Guild, would sit as the leadership of both Compact and Council. This originally caused more hard feelings and anti-Artificer sentiments, but these sentiments were silenced when the Artificers spread a few Ar­ nfacts around to "encourage" cooperation.
T e Brea ing
Despite the problems in its inception, the Council unified the Guilds as a po­ litical force. While they bickered behind closed doors, they presented a united front to the rest of Srygia. They towered over rhe rest of the Stygian population in power, surpassed only by the Deathlords (no doubt to those august wraiths' collective re­ lief). However, the winds of change were blowing, particularly in the form of unrest among the Hereucs and Renegades. Certain Guildmasters saw the instability wrought by these groups as a chance to seize power from Charon's obviously weakened grasp.
On April 6, 1598, the Guilds, led by the Artificers, attempted to stage a coup d'ecat.
The Usurers had helped to begin the revolt, but abandoned the project suspiciously quickly. When they left, their closest allies, the Masquers, followed, and the coup began to founder. It ended a miserable failure, and many of che offenders were oblit­ erated by the next tide.
In the wake of the rebellion, Charon had concerns that too much power was being concentrated in the Guilds' grasp. Another, more organized coup might well have succeeded where the Artificers' clumsy power grab had failed. He decided to remove the threatof usurpation bydissolving that threatening concentration of power, and did so by banishing the Freewraichs' Guilds from Stygia.
The Decree of the Breaking, as it was called, outlined Charon's policy agalllst the GuHds, to wit: The existing Guilds were dissolved as official organizations; any groups calling themselves Guilds were outlawed in Stygian lands; Guild membership was a crime; and specially trained Legionnaires would be taking the place of Guild members in Stygian society. Like the coup, the Decree was misguided in intention and doomed co failure. After 20 years of sabotage and work stoppages, Charon dis­ covered the Le ions could not replace the Guilds. For chat matter, the Breaking had done nothing to slow down Guild members themselves. They stilt had the tools and the talents for which wraiths would pay handsomely.

Still,1c would have made for a bad precedent for Charon to reverse his decision. Such an about-face would have suggested chat he could neither create flITTl policy mandates nor enforce his will, and m the post-coup instability, appearing weak in front of the predatory Deathlords would have incited more rebellions. In the end, he chose to reinstate "former" Guild members individually on the condition that they underscood the Guilds were no more. However, the fiction that the Guilds were destroyed wasstill circulated among the populace, and eventually the populace grew to believe 1t.
The Guilds do still exist, regardle:;s of poliq. No matter whac fict10 or party
-pnes are disseminated, the Guilds are sull a vital force in che Underworld. Many
provide orgamzed access to services that no wraith would want to live without, while
t,lhers have powers that have hecome political necess1tie,. In the end, the Guilds
,tuaintain chat any talent wanted badlyenough will per.made a wraith to abandon his
(P.aher principles to seek 1t out, wherever 1t lies.
Only about one-tenth of the wraiths in Srygia are Guild members, and most
,t,raiths t,elieve the Guilds don'c exisr. Mere knowledge of a Guild's specialty 1s noi h co convict a. wraith of membership, and it 1s expected that Srygian cimens wmechmg of at least one or two Arcanm. However, the Guilds were banished
ron's decree, and therefore belonging lO one rechmcally makes a wraith a de. As criminals are eligible to be smelted m che forges, Guild membership
a.nbe a dangerous thmg co hold.
Many ex-Guild members or rogues seek out Renegade groups m which to hide,
\lblch is a matter of great concern to those who wi,h co mamtam the Guilds' lock on Arcanoi specialties. Some of rhe.e Guild dropouts are allowed co run, but rhose
,pboteach Guild secrets to outsiders are playingdice with cheirafterlives,as the Guild m
,poon will almost certainly seek retribution for this l-etrayal. The Artificers and Pup­
peteers in parucular rake pleasure m huntingdown rogues who teach Guild secrets.
Heretics tend to either view the Guilds as vanished secular groups or they are
(ihaware of them entirely. According co some Heretic cults, rhe Breaking was divine
!'.fflbution against the blasphemers of the Haunters, Artificers or whatever orher Cuild incurred rhe cult's ire. On the ocher hand, many culrs may also shelter ex, Id  members, but emphasis is placed firmly on the "ex" aspect.Shelter among the bdievers comes with a price, and not all wraiths are willing to pa} thar price to avoid
cing Hierarchy wrath.
Despite rhe Decree, the Council ofGuildscontinues to meet and squabble, just as 1t
ys has. The Aruficers, as the Eldest Guild, claim certain nghts and privileges due
, demanding respect and obedience. This air of supenonty grates on rhc nerve:; of
''IIIMnnl« Haunters and Usurers, amongorhers, making for uneasy relatioru, between the
;9Jlups. Younger Guildsare frequently at crOS1> purposes m what codo and who has precc­ lmce, often turning Council meeci into sheer chaos. On those rare occasions when 'theGuilds are unified coward a goal, however, theycan stiII exert a frighteningamount of

Influence. Wirh so many Guild members infiltrated intoStygiansociety, freefrom susp1•
cioo, the Guilds have rherr fingers on more levers of power than the De.lrhlords dream.
eGuildsToday
Most wraiths, be they Hierarchy, Heretic or Renegade, don't actively believe m theexistence of the Guilds. Charon broke them centuries ago, after all, and they haven't heen heard from smce. The soulforger down the street? He's JU t asoulforgt.'r, Dot a Master-cla Artificer. The Sandman acro>S town who puts on dreamshows
tvery Thursday? She's Just a srreer performer, nm a member of the so-called Dream Union. Even m the byzantine bureaucracy of the Hierarchy, there are few who know
the truth, and rhey seem conrenc to let the lie srand uncontested.
55
onlivion
For wraiths with centuries to plot, elaborate politics are the rule of the day. The Guilds are no exception. Many Guild members are worried about the disinteizrating fabric of Stygian society under the Deachlords, and see themselveli as a viable alter­ native co the pettysquabbling that is the ruleof the day. In spiteof the Guilds' efforrs to maintain a low profile, they are as mucha part of the political strata as the Legions or Heretics. This runs terrible risksfor all involved; if the Guilds' existence were ever unmasked, the depths of their involvement in Srygian politics could send literall} thousands of wraiths to the forges {provided there was someone there cowork them)
Officially, wraitru are urged to devote their talents with Arcanot to the Hterorchy, whether they provide entertainment or more vitalservices.lSnofficially, each Guild docs have a definite political slam to it, with the talents of the members often providmgclue-
a., to 1tb	Because of the Dictum Mom«nn, Haunters, Proctors aml Puppeteers
remain the Guilds on the outside. Never officially sanctioned by the Hierarchy, they
tend mward	Rem.,.gade stance. Chanreurs and Sandmen walk a thin lme, as
their :,en·ices are valued but thetr anisttc temperaments dnve chem toward a more Ren­ egade political posture. Their fellow fence-straddlers are Spooks, Oracles, Usurers and Masquers, all of whom tend coshift according co the way the political breeze is blowing.
A1t1ficer.,, Harbmgers, Monitors and Pardoners	the inside, relatively regi­
mcnct...J and	in their stand against Oblivion. On the other hand,
Amficers and Pardoners have displayed	marked Heretic tendencies of lace,
their exrremi:;m
ferrymen
unserdes the other Guilds coa remarkable
tanding alone in the
rhe Ferrymen
paru.
enigma and legend. All wraiths have met one (or know
who has, or know someone who knows someone... ), bur no one know:; much about them. Ir is common knowledge that nowraith will interrupt a Fenyman on his journey, andeven the Legioru give them free passage.Theysweep the Byways clean of SpecLral mcur­ sioam.l keep the paths to theFarShoresandScygiasafe, but claim allegiance with neither Hierarchy, Heretics nor Renegades. Nobody
know, where they come from, where the)'are gomg, or why they wander endles:.ly.
The Ferrymen were originally created and empowered by Charon sn the heady
days before the Stygian Republic. Charging them	to the FarShores
and Transcendence, Charon did his job too well; when the surviving Ferrymen felt rhat Charnn had departed from chesr original,shared mission, the vast majority cumed

their back on the Emperor of Srygia and	independent agents. Now they
travel the Byways and Shadowlands, bound on unknowable missions.
Often, Ferrymen will	journeys to take on passengers. While they
rn y nor convey their guests to their destmations as qusckly assome might like, Fer­
rymen will
c; 50methmg they
the point of self-demuccion; the Moreover, Ferrymen have an
reputa­
tion i,1r fearles:.ncss and honesty, and the word ofoneof chei.e cowled wanderers 1sas good as truth anywhere in
ferrymen
<1ra task. Breaking
demand a pnce for their aid, whether 1t be an oath, an Artifacr to a Ferryman marks rheoathbreaker for eterniry,
and will sub1ect a wraith ro his justice.
Inadd111on to
'!Cendence,
Reset hySpectres to con4uer
legendary reputauon for guiding questing souls toward Tran­ wraiths well-schooled m combat and the Arcano1.
Tempest every ume they set forth, they are forced weak Ferryman does not journey far.
All Ferrymen can be known by their cowls and scythes, which they use to pole their relic raftsdown Byways and across the SunlessSea. Each Ferryman 1sdressed m an1dcnucal black robe, and clutches the weather-beaten wood of herscythe's hanJk wnh l>kelctally chm fingen;. It 1s said thar Ferrymen's eyes glow in the presence of Spectres, but m0l>l wraiths dismiss this as melodramatic legend.
57
Spectres
very w:u has its casualties, and the war against Oblivion is no exception. Wraiths whose Shadows become dominant leave the Shadowlands to dwell within the Tempest and Labyrinth; these unclean spirits are collectively known as Spectres. Servants of Oblivion, most Spectrl!.) !Seek co make others join in their tor­ ment.They work unceasingly toward the daywhen che Void con-
quer.; all, but until that time comes, they're not above having a little sadistic fun withany wraiths they come across.
..
Most wraiths know little about Specrres, other rhan that they should be feared and hated. The Shadow-Eaten assault Byways and CitaJeb, riding Maelsrroms on missions of destruction. Few wraiths are interested in knowing more about rhem, except perhaps more and better ways to combat them.
Most terrifying of the bitsof common knowledge about Spectres Ls rhe fact that they seem to be able cospeakdirectly to a wraith's Shadow, working with Lt in unholy tandem. Spectrel> often seem to know all of a wraith's weaknesses and fears, and can s0metimes empower the Shadow to a frightening extent.
There are rumors and hints of a vaguesociety of Spectres within the Labyrinth, but sociologically minded explorers have been few and far between. What is known is thar some Spectres do still retain their Fetrers and therefore can infiltrate the Shadowlands.
Among the many casres of Spectres, the best-known include:
Doppelgangers - Spectres who retain Fetters and a relanvely fair appear­ ance, Oopplegangers tum their attentions to subverting Citadels from within.
Nephwracks - Still possessing Fetters hue wrought into monstrous forms by the Tempest, Nephwracksdwell in the eternalstorm and assault travelers.They rarely appear in the Shadowlands, much to the relief of most wraiths.
Shades- Nearly mindless yet asronishingly powerful, Shades are among the most potent Spectres found outside of the Labyrinth. Shades rend co be twisted into forms rhar can only be described as inhuman.

Malfeans - The Priesr-Kmgs of the Labyrinth, the Malfeans are so powerful and evil as co be beyond the comprehension of an average wraith. Often called the Never-Born, Malfeans supposedly crawled forth from the Void at the beginning of time and have plotted, slumbered and warred amongst themselves ever smce.
59
chanter Three: character
Here lies one whose Mme was writ on water
-  John Keats, from his tombstone
cforc youcan begin to play Oblivion, you must create a character. This character will be the role you assume in the stories you and your friends tell. Unlike make-believe, you don't just make up a character osyou goalong. Instead, you create the character before you start playing. There's a certain amount of work involved - characters are made, not born. Character creation is a creative sll'\.lggle,and even the most experienced roleplayers find it a chal­ lenge to build a compelling yet honest character.
This chapter describes how to create a unique character,starting with a general concept and translating that concept into values that can be used in the game. The process itself is very simple, but you should not hesitate to ask a Narrator any ques­ tions you might have.
Character creation is like cooking. You gather the ingredients, sur them together, and let the result bakefor a while. Youstart by deciding what kind ofcharacter you want.
Arcyou goingto bea street-hardened punk,or a richandspoiled ex-deburanre? Are you a college graduate, or were you tutored in life somewhere in the Appalachian Moun­ tains?The background and personality of your character are the essential ingredients of
h1Sor her persona. From your basic concepc;, you can work out the derails.
Getting Started
You need to decide what type of character you want to play. Were you an honl'St flolice officer who made a mistake in dealing with a criminal, and who wasshot and killed
61
•.	olivion
...j·T,- c·s.="'
i!I.)
'I  A��
in the line of duty? Maybe you were a solid citi2en who died senselessly m an auto acci­ dent? Were youa famous celebrity whodied ofa twin OD of heroin and fame? Maybe you werea fan ofa celebrity who killedhimself, causing you to hang yourself in grief? The way you livedanddied helps to make up yourcharacter,as does your wrairh's major regret from life. That an cum makes up yourcharacter's background and personality, and, when added ro your character's statistics, rhey can createa well-developed and well-rounded wraith.
You can create a character at any age. Her culture and background is entirely up to you (with the approval of the Storyteller, of course). However, you scan the game as a fairly young and inexperienced Lemure, a newly created wraith. You have only recently crossed the Shroud and joined the ranks of the Restless Dead. You know little of ghostly society or unlife, except what you've been told by those few ghoscs you've already met in your travels, and perhaps by your Reaper. ln any case,you have been a wraith for 50 years or less. Your apparent age is the age when you "died."

The Storyteller may restrict your character creation choices or offer you other choices besides those listed here. Many stories have special considerations chat must be taken into account. There will often be certain roles that need to be filled in a story, and you may have to create a character co fill that need.
Oblivion's character creation process is designed as much to help you define your character as it is ro provide you with a means to interact with the rules. The processes of creacmg the character and picking yourstrong and weak poincs are meant co help you tighten che concept of your character.
Thisgame'scharacter creation system isa selectionsystem. BychoosingTraits(quali­ tiesdescribing yourcharacter) from a seriesofliscs, you build the persona you're going co play. le IS best co list all the Traitsand qualities you would like yourcharacter to haveand then eliminate the ones chat aren't essential to your concept. Unfortunately, you can't always have everything you wane. After all, neither life nor death is fair.
It is your responsibility to createa character who suirs the story. In this, you are guided by the Storyteller. A hard-edged street chronicle probably has no place for the wraith of a nice littleold lady whose Passions involve helpingchildren across che street. lf your character doesn't have a place in the story, you have co create a new character or carve out your own place in the existing tale. The latter can be much harder, and runs the risk of making the game lessenjoyable for other players if in che end your character just doesn't fir.
Cnaracter Creation
he  following is a breakdown of the character creation process.
Step One: Inspiration
Before you write anything down on your character sheet, you need to  find inspiration for the character you want to play. Once you've gotten che inspiration that you have been look­ ing for, you can start todevelop the basic groundwork.
Character development involves choosinga concept (how you lived and died, and what is yt,ur greatest regret from your living days) and a personality (by chQ(lSing a Na•
tureMd Demeanor). The character•
Demeanor) 1s
trast, you can put realistic quirks into your wraith's peiwnality.
Although short lists of Archccypes are given m thischapter, you can find complete listings an<l/or descriptions for Life, Death, Regret, Natures and Demeanors in Chapter Four.
Concept[ife,Death and egret)
In order to create a background that makes sense for your character, you need to figureoutspt.-cifically how heorshe liveJ anddied. You also need to come upwith theone thing that she regrets m05t from her breathing day•. These choice. will have an effect on Your later decisions about your character,,uch aswhat Passions drive her to keephanging on to her unltfe and what Ferrers she might have.Some choices will have a greater affect than others on what Attnbutes and Ab1litie5 you choose, and your chmces will also have an indirect influence on what Archetype 1sappropriate for your character's Shadow.
NatureandDemeanor
At this
of the disposmon and image of your character.
Your character's Nature isessentially her rrue personality. TI1e Nature describes who your character really is on the inside, bur your chosen Nature 1s not ncces.o;arily the only Archetype that applies to her personality; everybody has more than onefact that they show to the world.

In addition, you should also choose a Demeanor to describe the per.lOnalicy your character uses mday-co-day extStence. This is the role you play m the world, the fa de you present. Ir should probably bedifferent from the Archecype you have cho:.en as your c;haraeter's Nawre, but whatever Demeanor youdecideon isreallyonly a typical poseand nothing more. Peoplecan change their outward behaviors asquickly as they change their s,.lCks- You maydecided tochange your character's Demeanor at any time to suit Juferent people and different siwarions. Demeanor has no practical effect on the rules; it is only 1mended to serve as a roleplaying tool and ro help you get a graspon your wraith as you
Jetennine what her capabilitiesshould be.
StepTwo:Attriutes
Acrributes are everything a character naturally, intrinsically is. Are you strong1 Are you br:we?Are you persuasive!Questionssuch as theseare aruwered by the way you distrib­ utt your Attributes, the Traits that describe the basic, innate potential of your character.
The nn;rstep is to prioritize the threedifferentcategoriesof Attributes, placing them in orderof importance to yourcharacter. Are you moreadept at physical matters than you are m social sitllations? Docs your intellectsurpass your physical prowess, or vice versa?
Physical Attributes describe the abilities of the body, such asstrength, dexter­
ity and endurance.
Social Attributes describe your character's appearance and charisma - her ability to influence others.
Mcneal Attributes represent yourcharacter's mental capacity and includesuch thing as memory, perception, self-control and the ability to learn and think.
The concept and affiliations of your character may suggest what your Amibute pnoritiei;should be, but feel free to pick any way you please. For now, think in the broad­ est of perspectives- youcan get morespecific after you undersrand the big picwre.
After you've chosen che order of your wraith's three Attribute categories, you need to choose specific Traits from each category. Traits are adjectives that describe your character'sstrengths and weaknesses, defining yourcharacter JUStasa character ina novel 1Sdd1ned. ln your primary (strongest) Attribute category, youcanchoose sevenTraits. In your e,econdarycategory, youcan choose five. In your tertiary (weakest) category, youcan llllc.e only three. Thus, you receive a total of 15 Attribute Traits. You can take the same Trait more than once, if you wish, reflectinggreater aptitude at a particular specialty.
o livion
Chapter Five describes how Traits funcuon in the game. for now, you simply need to understand that these Traits reflecr how competent your characrer 1s at c.hf­ ferent kinds of actiom. The more Traiu. you haw m one Attribute category, the more skillfully your character can perform actions involving that category.
Listed below are examples of Armbuce Traits from which you can choose, sepa­ rated into appropriate categories.
Step Three: Advantages
Advantages are the Traits that separate one character from another. They allow a character co cake acrions that would be impossible to a normal human being. There are four categories of advantages: Abil,ries, Arcanoi, Passion,, and Fetters.
choosing Abilities
Abilities represent your craming and knowledge beyond the outline provided by your Attributes. They are what you have learned and what youcan Jo rather than what you are. Abilities let you perform specialized rasks that are only possible with training: hacking computers, soulforging or reading the Dead Sea Scrolls.

Choose five different Abilities from the list that follows.
( apter1nree: Cnaracter
c oosingArcanoi
Arcanoi are gho:,cly powers, the supernatural abiltries available co a wraith. Each wra1rh begins thegame with three Arcanoi, and you maychoose any Arcanoi to start the game. Each Arcanos has two powers ac the basic level. If the character hasan Arcanos, the first power listed must be chosen first.The character cannot advance co intem1e<.li­ nte-level powers in a given Arcanos until all of the beginning powers of that Arcanos h,we been learned. A player may choose to work his way up to the incennediate level of
,in Arcano:, rather than choo.5e the basic levelsof three different Arcanos. However, you mmthave yourStoryteller's permission beforeselecting theadvanced levelsofany Arcanos.
Coosing passions
Passions are whar fuel a wraith's Underworld existence. By harvesting Pathos trom )Our Pasi,ioru;, you can heal yourself or even use your Arcanoi. You may choose four Passions, focused emotions which drive your existence and give you strength.
When selecting Pai.sions, you must phrase the Passion itself as an imperative and then dL-ci<le what emotion liesat itscoreof ic.If yourcharacter wasmurden:d, you might
67
have the Passion Avenge my murder (Hate). Remember that the obvious emotion fora Passion is not always the appropriate one; if your character's murder might lead to the deaths of others you love, you might have the Passion Avenge my murder (Fear).Then
again, you might simply wane to get back at the person who bumped you off, in whtch case the Passion Avenge my murder (Vengeance) might be more appropriate.
If you or someone near you (at a Narrator's discretion) strongly feels the par. cicular emotion that rests at the heart of one of your Passions, you might be able co feed from of it. With a Simple Test you are able to see if you can gain strength from the present emotion. This may be overseen by a Narrator, or may simply be a test between the wraith and a bystander if no Narrator can be found.
C oosing fetters
Fetters are people, places or other material objects that simultaneously keepa wraith attached co the Skinlands and anchor him against Oblivion's relentless pull. In fact, Fetters are partof what makes a lost soul a wraith. Each represents something that held a special meaning or certain importance to your character while he was alive. In practical terms, your Arcanoi are often easier co use around your Fetters; plus, you can rest and heal more easily near a Fetter.
You get to choose four Fetters, describing each one exactly. Bear in mind that things happen duringgameplay which cannot be foreseen; you might lose a Fetter or gain one, depending upon how things work out.
Stepfour:shadow Creation
Thereare twomain aspects to a wraith's personality: the Psyche and the Shadow. The Psyche is the main pare of a wraith's personality, the one that represents his force of will and identity. The Shadow is the dark side of his personality, the voice in the back of his head that caioles, connives and corrupts him to do its bidding until it drags him down into Oblivion.

As it 1s impossible to have players take the part of each others' Shadows in Oblivion (what to do if your Shadow is on the other side of the building? Take ad­ vantage, of course....), therole falls to Narrators. With that in mind, you should write down the details of your Shadow on a Shadow sheet (provided at the back of the book) and carry that sheet wid, you at all times when you play Oblivion. When a Shadowguiding Narrator arrives on the scene and decides to rake the part of your Shadow, you'll hand over yourShadow sheet to that Narrator.Shadows can connive, strike deals and otherwise interfere with your character's everyday existence.
Complete descriptions of Shadow creation and systems for Shadowguiding are in Chapter Six.
Arc etypes
Just as the Psyche has Archetypes, the Shadow does as well. Shadow Archetypes, however, are warped and d1St0rted. These Archetypes, just like your Psyche's Nature and Demeanor, define your wraith'sShadow and help make that part easier co roleplay. Your Shadow's Archetype also uggests the sore of tactics and entreaties it will make of your Psyche, not to mention whac it might do if it ever gets to takeover.
Angst is the Shadow equivalent coa wraith Pathos. Angst refleclll the so-ength of thecorrupting voice inside your head in tenns of how loud it is and how much control it hasoveryou. Angst comes in twotypes:Temporary and Pennanent. The Shadowacquires Angst m:;everal ways, includingfeeding its Dark Passions and accumulating 10 poinlll of Temporary Angst ro gam one Permanent AngstTrait. Angst is the fuel chat yourShadow uses to work its way with you as it tries to steer you ever closer to Oblivion embrace.
More on Angst, its uses and costs can be found in Chapter Six.
Dart passions
Thl' Shadow's goals and drives are embodied in Dark Passions, which are usu­ ally the oppo:,ite or corrupted, self-destructive versions of the Psyche's normal Pas­ sions. For example, if you had a Passion such as Avenge my murder (Anger), your Shadow's Dark Passion might be Get revenge on anyone who disagrees with me (Hate). There is a fine lme between anger and hate, but if your character ever seeks excessive vengeance on another wraith, that might be enough for a test to see if your Shadow gains Temporary Angst. More information concerning Dark Passions and tht.>tr use in roleplaying can be found in Chapters Four and Six.
liioms
Thorns are the toolschat yourShadow lL5CS to gain control of you or cause you roslip upand hastenyourdownward spiral toward Oblivion. Whena Shadow hasgained strength
69
Oblivion
1hmu.;-iTcmror.1ry An tpo1n it canthen unleash itsThoms{c1tht:rthn'>l1ghaNarrator\ yourShadowg1.mlc\ or yourown chmcc). You choose two"leveb" wonh of Thoms, cirhe; one Level Two Thom or tWl Level One Th m,. Complete dc-cription., and Ji,, n"' Th"rm am befounJ in Chapter F<1or, and the useof Thurm 1> dc:;crih!J in Chapter Sue.
Step five: st Touches
111e most imponant ,rage of character creation, in tenru of character definmon, is the application of l:bt wuches. These are the little derails and tlowishc, chat complete your character. During th1 srage you may rake Negauve Trai , flaws in your phyMque or f"!r.iOnahcy Negative Trait,,11low you to take additional (positive) Traits

ba,is. You cm  abo use chem co gam Anifacc-, Scarus m a particular groupor even a ne\\ Arcanos. You will alsoneed 10 record your Pathosand choose your Willpower Tra1t,at rh1 time. Finally, you net.-.:! to beawareof yourcharacter's s1.11c of health, 1.e., hisCorpus Level.
pat os
Pacho:; Tram; rcp=m rhe eneimc that powen. a wraith's unliving existence. Pure emotion crystallm..J mto usable form, Patho:, iswhat enablesa Restlesscokeepgomg in faceofOhlivion. lJrnwnfrom fulfillingyour P 1ons,Pachosenables youcou.,;eyour
You can al'°use P:1tho. to heal your Corpus when m1un.-d m combat
You ,1arr off every session with five Pathos Traits, which you can use m what­
ever way you need to.  Even thou h you start with five Trans, you	raise )Our
Pathos to a maximum	10 by following your Pai.sl()ns and siphoning Pathos from
locations rich m emotion (Haunts) and from the memories o( the living Your Pacho,Traits can never rise above I0, anJ 1t1sextremely likely that the of Pathos Traits you have will rise and fall throughout the
Bac groun Traits
can).
There areseveral typesof Background Traits, but rhe mosc important kind 1sStatus. Every wr.mh bt.>gm, pla) with one Status Tra1t for oneof che three ffiaJllf facuon,.of the UnJerworlJ: Hierarchy, Renegade,, or Hereuc.,. The ,mgle Status Trait mean, that }'ClU arc"off1ci,1lly" n.'CO!,'l'lized as a member of that group(hy others 1f not byyourselO. Staru:, Traits for Oblivion are U!,WII) held mone of those three vanencs.
The moreSrnnis you have withina pan:iculargroup, the more respecrt,l youarc within 1hat groupnod the moreauthonty you are like!) to w1dd Convcr.;ely, the moreStatus you
the more hkcl) itb char member.. of the orher twogroups w1II IO',k ,katlce	·
There 1> a fourth rype of Status that can be purchased during character ere· m the ,hadowy organizations known a the Guilds. Guild Staru, c1n be rwo Negative TraltS per level. This kmd of Status can bc dangerous to
hold.The outlawed Guilds depend on silence forsurvival, and take II quite seriously. Wraithscan hold Smrus in more than one group, but chi, can Ix: mcky. If y<1u'rc foundout, one or more of the groups you belong to may decide that you're a sccunl)
risk and deal with you accordingly.
Willpower
Willpower reflects your basic drive, self-confidence ;mJ tenaciry. It is e enual
rr, c,.mtrolling the actions and behavior of your character, especially m times of
,tr<"s when your Shado" might attempt co rakeover the Psyche. You start with three
\'('illpowt!r Traits to use,airhough youcan regain your Willpower through roleplaying
(aar Narrator's or a Storyteller's discretion).
Ne ativeTraits
At this pomr, you may increase your character's power by selecting coumerbal­ ancmg flaws. By taking a Negative Trair, you can, for example, add a new Trait co
\our Amibuces or rake another Ability. Negative Traits are Amibutes that identify
,h,,rrcomings m your character's physique or personality. They can be used against
\llU in achallenge (a contest staged between you and other characters). Each Nega­
nvl' Trait is equal to one positive Trait; for each Negative Trait you take, you receive
.1 pu,mve Trait of yourchoice. You can rake no more than five Negative Tra1ts with• nuc Storyteller permis. ion. You can take whatever Negative Traic., seem to fit your characrcr; you need not take the full five, or any at all. However, it'sfun to  have at ll"J:.t one; 1ronically, Negative Traits make your wraith more alive and realisuc.

Ench Negarive Trait you take allows you to choose one of the following options:
Take one aJd1tional poliitive Trait in any category of Attribute: Physical, So­ c1al, Mental. (The maximum number of Traits you can possess in a given category is Jcc1dcJ by the Storyteller. She hru. the final word on how limited or unlimited your character can be.)
Take one extra Ahilicy.
Opuonal: YourStoryteller may allow you ocher options for modifying your char­ acter. Possihlc options are:
Take one more Passion or gain another Fetter. It costs rwo Negauve Traits to
i:ain one Pru.sion or Fecter.
Take one Negative Trait in order to purchase one level of Amfacr or one be( of Status m either the Hierarchy, Renegades or Heretics. Artifacts are described rnorc fully in Chapter Four.
Two (An Innate
,:,,..,,-.,..-...,.	5
•-"".,. t!"'.·..
iai
-==============-
it. You don't need to take more Negative Traits to gain other Innate Abilities m the Arcanos you purchase). A single level of Guild Status may also be purchasd.
Three Negarive Traits allow the purchase of a Basic Arcanos (which does include all of the Innate Abilities of that particular Arcanos).
You can take another Angst Trait (see Shadow Creation, below) in lieu of two Negative Traits, but you can never initially take as many or more Angst Traits than you have Willpower Traits.
Healt
Characters are considered to be at full health at the beginning of each story unless the Storyceller states otherwise. Of course, characters can be hurt or even destroyed duringastory. All wraithsstart eachgame with a Permanent Corpus rating of 10, bur this can be reduced through Harrowings.
StepSix:Spark of Deatn
There are other aspects of a character that should be detailed. These flourishes are not necessarily important in terms of the game, but are vital with regard co roleplaying. In many cases, these "sparks" are provided for you, or at least suggested to you, by the Storyteller. Your character needs to be woven into the story, and these "sparks" allow the Storyteller codo just that.
Ot er Aspects
Background- You need cocreate a background foryourcharacter, describing his life before dyingand becominga wraith: what he did, how he lived and what was unique about him.This background may describe what yourcharacter did fora living, howhesaw himselfand what others thought of him. Indeed, many wraiths find it difficult to abandon their conceptsof themselves asliving beings, andclingto trappings of their former lives in their perceptions of themselves and their dress. Their past remains with them forever.
Regardless of when youdied,whether it wascenturies agoduringthe AgeofReason or lasrThursday, you havespent 30 yearsor lessasa "free"wraith.lf you areover30 yearsdead as a wraith, you need a reason, such as being finally released from shdtered servitude, Thralldom to one of the three major factions (which might give you a good reason for having ties to that particular faction),or someother reason ofwhich a Storyteller approves.
Secrets - Each character has secrets of some sort, things that she doesn't want ochers to discover. One secret that almost all wraiths posses:; is the location of their per­ sonal haunts; who needs Reapers pokingaround while you'reSlumbering?TheStoryteller is likely to give you a number of secrets that you need to protect over the cowse of the chronicle.

•Motivations-What isyour purpose?What motivatesyouon a<lay-to-day, night• to-night basis? Describe your motivations in as muchdetail as possible; ask the Storyceller forhelp ifyou can't thinkofanything. Unlessyou arean experienced player, it'slikely that the Storyteller will provide you with a motivation or two at the start of the chronicle.
Appearance - Props and costumes will help ochers understand, or at least recognize, your character at a glance. You need not only to act like your character,
t,uc look like him as well. Your character's appearance makes his Physical (and many Social) Tra1cs visible to other players.
A wraith's appearance IS constructed from his perception of himself. Thts means rhat many Resrless look similar, but not idenrical, co the ways they did when they were among the living. Wraiths often appear in clothing more appropriate to the year in which theydied than the current one.Some wraiths'appearances havechanged Jramancally from cheir living visages, whether through the effectsofMoliate or merely rhe1r own self-perceptions. lf your character is a wraith of this sort, you will need to finJ a way to let others know that your character's appearance isJifferent than yours.
Many wraiths wear masks, either as badges of office or as fashion statements. You may wish to create a personalized mask for your character that indicates things like her affiliation, rank, etc.
Equipment - Your character is likely co begin rhe game with equipment of one sort or another. Ask a Narracor for more details on your personal possessions, known in the Underworld as relics. Relics are the memories of items that have been either destroyed or damaged to the point that they can never be fixed. Through synchronic1ry or wraithly manipulation, some of these have crossed the Shroud to l:>ecome relics. The assortment of relics available is somewhat haphazard. There are many relic guns, but relic bullets are scarce. Relic cars abound, bur few work.
Youcan choose relicsappropriate to yourcharacter's background, checking with che Storyteller co see if what you choose is appropriate to the chronicle. Relic teddy bears, lockets and the like should be all right regardless of circumstance; relic anti, cank weapons are usually not.
Items created in the Underworld and relics imbued with special abilities are called Artifacts. Arcifaccs are nor considered normal equipment for characters no matter what, as they must be purchai;ed during character creation.
Quirks- By giving your character quirks (interesting personality characteristics), you add a great deal of depthand interest to her. Writea fewsentenceson the back of your charactersheetabout the strange and interesring things thatdefine yourcharacter. Examples of 4uirb include a morbid senseof humor, an obsession for collecting lost relic inglesocks, or a habit of grunting when answering yes to a question. These little couches area great way to personalize yourwraith, and to make her come ualive to you (so tospeak).
Advanceddaracter Creation
Sometimes the Storyteller may want players to create characters whoare not your average just-starting-outwraith. Insuchcases,additional Traits may be provided in many categories, and limics on Negative Traits may be raised. Rules for
such"advanced" character creation are provided in Chapter Four. Ask your Storyteller for more details.

Sample character Creation
acqueline sits down and opens up Oblivion, wancing to create a character. Her Storyteller, Roland, helps her out and guides
her through the process of character creation.
Obli on
StepOne: inspiration
Jacquelme th mksfor afew mmute-, anJ,afterro.smg.m,unJ a few1<b1>with RobnJ, decides co play a workaholii: doctor whos nt too much time away frnm her loved 1me, and drove heri.clf mtoa str ,-related heart mtack. Howe,-cr, ,he d n 't w,mt the ch.ir• acrer to be purely intellecrual, so ,he decides rhat her character "-ru;an ,tthlctc m college beforeshe bt.-c.1me too wrappt:J ur in her work.
Pondermg her wraith\ h.1ckground,J,1cquelme decides chat her character pulk.J herself out of bemg the nmldle child m a lower-middle-class family to shine on her own. She decided at a young .1gc to ,urra , hertwo br,itheri. and to <·,cape from .1 w1,rld where man} of her peer, were pregnant or dmng drul?,. She u,ed her ,ruJ1c:; and school athleno. roavoid rhe hanh rcal1tie, of her nc1ghborhooJ, and wadu.11<,J at rhe top of her class with letter, in rwo varsity Sj1(1rts. She went to one llf the rnp schools in the country on a ,ports schol.mhip for her undergraduate degree, JnJ  worked odd hour- m the nearhv hospital in between stud}ing while at medical sch,10I. Allof this hcl tofle,h out Jacquelme\ wr.uth, even 1f 1t J,.,...,n't have any direct hearingon how she "builds" her character's Trait,. Bc,1dc,, these deta1b can alw:an, serve as plot hooks for scones.
Movmg on to the actu,11character-building proce,-,,JacquclmeJec1desto choose Survivor as her character\ Nature and C.ireg1ver a< her Demeanor, pnw1dinJ? an mtere,,nng contr,m. The former reflect- what ,be\ rc:ill} like, wlule the latter 1s
,omethmg he picked up pmfcss1onally and has yet to ,heJ even in dc.Hh.
Next,Jacqudmc thinb about what her character\ e,,rl) death w1,ulJ cau,e her to regret. She thinks thac nm cakine time out co rend w1Ch her hu,1-r.md and their
pets would be an excellent Regret for her character. She has figured out her Life (workahlilic doctor), her Death (dyingof astress-related hean attack at a young age) and her major Regret (workmg coo hard and losing her loved ones). These thmgs, comhined with the character history she's created, give her a good idea of who her wrairh i,, what sore of Abilities and other Traits she might have, and what direction to take the re,t of the characrer-butldmg process in.
Finally, Jacqueline has a firm grasp on who her character 1s. She names her character "Challen" because the name seems to fit, and moves on to assigning TrattS.
Step1wo: Attributes
Jacqueline 1s ready to figure out Challen's Traits.11,e first thmg she needs to do
15 ro prioritize rhe categories. What Traits will best reflect the previous life of a doc­ tN01,sessd with her work? Also,Jacqueline remembers char Chailen was an athlete
back when she was in college, but hadn't been active for years before her death Shedecides to have Challen be more of an intellectual character, bur one who was
rea50nably fit and who carries that over into the Underworld. She chooses to make

Challen's Mental Traits primary (with seven Traits), her Phyliical Traitsi;econdary (with fiveTraits), and, because Challen wasn't overly concerned with her social life when she
w.ualive, Jacqueline makesSocial Traits tertiary (with only threeTraits).
Trying co put herself into an author'sshoes, Jacqueline imagines how she would descnhe Challen by using adjectives and the priorities she's set for her character's Atrributc Traits. Since Challen was highly educated, Jacqueline chooses her Meneal Traits reflect this: Calm,Determined (shedecides to take 1c twice to show her force of personality), Disciplined, Insightful, Knowledgeable and Rational.Since Physical Tra1Cs areChallen'ssecondary priority, Jacqueline chooses five that would reflect her former athlenc training: Enduring, Resilient, Robust,Tenacious and Tireless. Finally, Jacqueline chooses Social Traits: Genial and Commanding ( which she chooses twice, as Challen's profe.-s1onal statusforced her to learn how to make people move m cnsissituations).
StepTnree: Advantages
Jacqueline now picks five Abilities chat Challen would have had as a doctor. Obviously Challen's position as a doctor in a major urban hospital would mandate her having Medicine at least three rimes. Jacqueline also decides chat she'll rake Enigmas, since Challen spent time puzzling our appropriate diagnoses for ailmene:, and injuries. She has one more Ability to take and aher looking over the list, decides that Computer would have been a good Ability for Challen to have had while she was still alive. After all, most medical equipment is computerized these days.
She now debates what Arcanoi she feels would be appropriate for Challen - ones that she might have grasped quickly upon her entry mto the Underworld. Jacquelme likes the fact that Moliate and Usury can be used to heal others so she takes Sculpt (Moliate) and also Transfer and Chantable Trust (Usury).
Jacquelme now needs to decide what insptres Challen and what nes she has to  the Skinlands. ln other words, she needs to choose Passions and Fetters. Sht.- decides to take for her Passions: Protect and watch over myhusband (Love); Help and heal others in need (Hope); Live my life again through my husband (Jealousy); and Advance in the Hierarchy (Ambition).
I &,::-.r"')''.  ,	-  ,	:	......,_	:..-- .
·1. .111  \	...	·	,
onlivion
,==============-
Based on the choicesof her Passions,Jacqueline decides that Challen's husband David would make a perfect Fetter, as would the office at the hospital where she worked herself to death (so tospeak). She has two more choices to makeconcerning
her Fetters and, for lack of anything better, decides co make them Challen's Saab900
Turbo (now being driven by her husband) and her favorite cat, Guano.
Step four:Shadow Creation
Jacqueline now has to design her Shadow and make sure that Roland, her Story. teller, approves of her choices. For Challen's Shadow's Archetype, she decides on the Abuser, a direct contradiction to Challen's wish to heal. After that, she marks downa single Angst Trait (Permanent and Temporary), and moves on.
Looking back at what she chose for her Passions, Jacqueline decides to base Challen's Dark Passions on the opposite of Protect and watch over my husband (Love) to Hurt my husband (Hate). Instead of Help and heal others (Hope), she makes her other Dark Passion, Lash out at everyone (Anger).

The only thing left before Cha lien'sShadow is complete is co choose two points worth of Thoms. Jacqueline chooses a two-point Thom, Shadow Call, in order to keep herself on her roes when her Shadowguide decides to call for a few of its friends.
She shows her character's Shadow to Roland, and he approves of her choices, saying that it would fie in nicely with his campaign. Nowshe has enough material for the person Shadowguiding her character co develop a tangible dark side for Challen to have to deal with while she is roleplaying.
Stepfive: st Touches
Jacqueline is ready to play Challen, butshe needs to put a few more rouches on her before she's ready to roleplay.
She writes down on her character sheet that she has five Pathos Traits to start the game. She also marks down her three Willpower Traits (since this will be Jacquelme's first time playing Challen).
Next comes Status, aml Jacqueline figures that Challen is a little too by-rhe­ l,ook robea Renegade or Heretic. She would have naturally gravitated co the struc­ ture and organization of rhe Hierarchy. With that m mind,Jacqueline marks off her
one Status Trait as Hierarchy.
However, the idea of Challen as a faceless Hierarchy citizen doesn't appeal to her very much, Ml Jacquelme wants ro get some Status beyond the basic level. In order to do that, she takes cwo Negative Traits and grabs an additional Hierarchy Sracus Trait in exchange. These Neganve Traits will also help her fle h Challen our some, making her more human. She decides that ShyandTactless might best repre­ sent the good doctor, since she hasn't spenc coo much time interacting with people
except for heahng them.
Meanwhile, she now has one additional level of Status in the eyes of the Hier­ archy, which means the higher-ups might not know who she is, but she probably has some pull in the local Necropolis. She might even be given watch over a small Do­
main, or have a token from her Anacreon which shows her loyalty - it's up co the Scoryrcller to decide how to incorporate her Status into the storyline.
Rounding out the derails, Jacqueline also makes a note that Challen has 10 P nnanent Corpus, which means that asa new character she also has 10 Temporary Corpus. As a wraith, she hasn't been scratched - yet.
StepSix:Spar of Deat
Jacqueline now has all the statistics char she needs to roleplay Challen the way she want:5, but she needs to get used to the way Challen thinks, acts and reacts- her mannerisms. These little quirks and nuances will take some getting used to, so she d«ide:;ar first to create a few physical mannerisms that will help her roleplay Challen. She figures that Challen always rushes since she always had co thmk on her feet while on duty in the hosp1cal. As an outgrowth of this, she abo talks rapidly and
doesn't necessarily stop to see ifanyone understands whatshe issaying. Likewise, she walks and gestures bnskly. All these little things will make Challen stand out in ocher player.;' minds, makmg her appear co be a realistic person whom they might actually meet on a street or in a hospital.

At thts pomt, Chalien's ready for Jacqueline to slipon her skin and begin play­ ing. Witha game about to start,Jacqueline ponders whatsort ofcostuming she wanes to use, whether or not to wear a mask, what relics Challen might realistically have, and so on. It's showtime....
chapter our: characteristics
n Oblivion, you choose your character'sTraits inorder to make h.tm more realisticand believable, and to simulate within thecontext of
' the rules what he iscapable of. Byallowmg you to personahze what your character knows and can do, the Trait system gives him the breath of life (or m thiscase, the kh:.ofJeath). You need to decide whichTraitsareapplicable to the character conceptyou havecome up with, anJ discattl the ones that aren't essential. You won't be able to give your wraith all theTra1ts that you'll wane him to have,
-w,letting your priorities before you actually start picking is viral.
ll1cTm1t in Oblivion aregiven relatively broad definitions so that you can inter­
Jmthem to fir what you imagineyour character might be.You might not beableto adiust
allthe Trait <lurin
(esix-cially those with direct rules applications) bur those
fraus that help you define and roleplay your character areopen to your interpretac1on.
life,Deathand egret
l1fe
hat <lid you do when you were alive? How did you lave your life from day to day? It's usually besr co play characters who were relatively normal - rock starsor actorscan create problems-  but m the end 1t comes down to whar you wane and what your
,  Storyteller will permit. Among the possibihues are:
Oblivion
Artist- There wa one truly great work ofart m you that would haveamazed che world (if you'd lived long enough co complete it).
Blank Slate -  A real tabula rasa, your life is a mystery to you.
Cop- Perhaps you were a beat cop who watched his beloved neighborhood hie che skids. Or you could have been with the narcotics squad, a SWAT team or even crapped behind a desk in a precinct house.
Crook - Crime certainly did pay for you, ac least for a while. Then again, maybe you got caught.
Dabbler - There wasn't enough time when you were alive for you to follow all of your interests. So you did a little of this and a little of chat, and never founda true calling.
Disestablishmentar-ian - You lived cosubvert the system however you could. Maybe you were a hacker, or perhaps you thought you were the new Robin Hood.
Drifter - Nothing held you down for long. Maybe a hobo, maybe an artist looking for inspiration, maybe just a free spirit, you didn't stay still long enough to put down roots.
Politician - You went co Washington with a mandate for change, and got changed instead. Perhaps you never even got elected,or weredrummed our of office.
Punk-Anarchy! If it stood up, you knocked it down; you saw the way it was looking at you!
Slacker -  You never did much of anything in your breaching days.
True Believer- Your faithsustained you in life, but this isn't the heaven you were promised.

Victim -  You just lee life happen to you, always reacting instead of acting.
Workaholic - 80-hour work weeks and Z A.M. planning meetings swal­ lowed your life; now you're wondering what you missed.
How Did youDie?
The way in which you died determines a lot about your perspective across the Shroud. After all, a wraith who slipped away peacefully and one who has his own murder co avenge are likely to have very different viewpoints on dealings with the living. Here are a few possibilities:
Accident - Maybe the driver's side air bagon your new car didn't inflate, or the power wasn't shut off before you cried co rewire your apartment. At the funeral everyone said chat it was just one of those things, and wasn't it a shame....
lllness - Maybe 1t was sudden, or it could have been a slow spiral down ro death. Perhaps you were given cancer by that chemical plant on the out:l.kirrs of town, or you're convinced the government tested a new biological warfare agent on you.
Mystery - You don't know what happened ro you, and you have a sneaking susp1c1on you're better off that way.
Old Age- You lived a long, full lifeand went gently. Then again, maybe you kicked and screamed for JUSt one more minute.
Overdose - You went looking for oblivion in the form of drugs or alcohol. They rook you a loc closer to Oblivion than you thought possible.
80
lia terfourC aracteri tic
I'
Something Strange... - You were a one-in-a-m1llmn v1cttm. Perhaps you were srruck by lightning, or had a rare allergic reaction to your cold medication. Eicher way, you never saw tt coming.
Suicide - Everyone said that you were just trymg to get artenrion, but what y()u "'ere really trying to find was help. It' toolate now, though....
Violence - From the battlefield co the home, violence claims victims every­ where. Perhaps you were a soldier, or were killed during a mugging. Someone might even have had you killed.
WhyAreyouStillHere?
Your Regret sums up why you became a wraith, mstead of quietly movinR on to the next level of existence. What is it that you neversaid or did that meansso much coyou now that you've move<l on? Here are a few ideas:
Failure -  You died knowing that you'd failed at something you'd set your hand to. Maybe 1t was a lack of confidence, or perhaps just 0 lack of talent, but you weren't good enough then. Now, though, it'sa different story.
Guilt - Your sins were coo great, and they won't lee you rest
Legacy - You wanted to leave something behind you, and now you feel obligated to protect it from rhe otherside. Perhaps it's your childrcn, perhaps it's the company you founded, bur you will see your legacy live on.
Love -  Maybe you never told the one you loved how you felt, and you need to rectify this from beyond the grave. Or, perhaps thereare those lcJt alive whom you loved more than life - or death.

Missed Chances - AU the trips you postponed, the lovers you never rook, the opportuntties you passed up; you want a second chance at them.
Mission Possible -  You had a mission in life- maybe an environmental crusade, or a mandate ro cake back your government - and you're nm going to let a ltttle thing like death stop you now.
Revenge -  Someone made your life a living hdl, orev1:n enJed it. Now it's payback ttme, and you've got all eternity.
Unfinished Business - You never got a chance to cakeback those last harsh word. you spoke before yourdeath, and now it's too lace to heal the wounds. Or is it?
Unfulfilled Destiny - You were meant for great things which you never quite achieved while you were alive.
Nature andDemeanor
umans instinctively roleplay. Each momentof our lives isspent play, mga roleofsome typeor another. Wearc made upof many layersof personalittes,some of which we create for the benefit of our peers.
Archetypes area wayof defining personalities.They describe the roles char are a collecttve characteristic of our idennci >s, the  personality typesall peoplesomehow share.The psychologist Carl Jung mvcnted the idea of archetypes as a way of de'iCribing any
concept that resides in the collective unconsciorn, of humanity. He believed that uch
81
Oolivion	]
complex )ymholh couldn't be rigidly categorizl,J, but he 1.hd give namel> ro me of the archetype,. Nonetheless, m order co1nco1JX>mte the concept of archetype, intoour5ys.. tcm, a modified version of thu, idea1s I.bed todt!:>Cribe per..<,nalme:.(m.,t d ofconcepb). Remember to r.tke the follow mgguidelmes with a grain ,.,fsalt.
Characters dl) nor, in fact, fit mto neat and tidy cntcgones. Archetypes arc the molds for an infinite number of different personal1t1e), and should not be seen ,1, ab, .,.lute standards. An archcrype 1sa basic paccem, a template, and each md1v1dua! vanes from that angina! m man) way . These archetype areexamples of the vanct) of human personalities, and are incended w guide, not ro restrict.
The key to the use of archecypes IS the interaction between the character's Nature and D.:!meanor. Nature is the inner peoonahty, what the character doesn't u,ua!Jy revt,tl to others. Mo:,t dare not reveal their aue, inner selves, and therefore creme a Demeanor
- a fabe front -l>ehmd which the aue self c;m be hidden. Demeanor may beascon a,,. tent as the chi1racter's eye color, or may change from minute co minute. Exrraordmanly open, honest or :,1mple-mmded mdividuab have the ,;ame Demeanor and Nature, l:,ur there IS no rule ,;aymg that Nature and Demeanor should - or can't - be the same.
Archetypes have a practical impact on the game, for characters can be man1pu•
!need according to their personalities. The personality of a character can both pro• tecc the player and make him vulnerable. Archetypes must be chosen with care.
The followmg is an in-depth account of the Nature and Demeanors available for Oblivion. Choose one from the lisr chat best describe, yourcharacter's Naturt,1>r innerself, and one from the list that besc de,cribes the front chat you wish to present co the world. This will help you in creating ,1 believable and sincere character from the statistical skeleton of your character ,heec, the ,park chat will breathe life into your creation and make her a real and acti\'e part of the story.

Nature al'Cl works likea Nl-g-at1ve Trait If you know somec.me's Nature, you may u..:
,r asa Neganve Trait in any typeo( challenge. The Nature shoukl havesomething to do wirh the challenge, so you could li1d a Manyr Nature when trymg to ralk someone mro i,:omg mto a bu1ldmg covered with barmw-ll1me co resew a trapped wm1ch. Howc\'er, you could ml! u.:,e a Child Nature agam,.t ,;omeone when U)'mg to look at ht, aura.
Architect
You believe m creatmg,omcthmg of lastmg value. You seek to leave a legacyvf "'me kmd for rho,e who will come after you. You are rhc t)'pe ofper50n who wt,uld h:t\'C built a t•,wn, creatl-d a company, or founded an m,murion.
Avant-Garde
You are only intereste..l m what is new or on che cumng edge. You must be the fmt tod1sco\'Cr or create ,;omcthmg chat people have never seen before The thrill of cxpenmentatton 1s a maior lure to the A\anr-GarJe, and you aren't afraid co rake a few risks 1f rhcy're necei..ary.
Bon Vivant
You e•capc the dread of rhe Void I,} deadening your senses with pleasure. Your hl.J,m1sm m1i,:ht or might noc be immoral m the eye, of ,ome, but either way, your pur,u11of new pleasures 1s your mam concern.
Bravo
You rcmforce your ownself-worth by pun1pmg yourself upand demgr:mng ochers. foir equal, te$p\,'Ct m )ourmu)<l,anJ you willcake C\Cfl opportunuy comake()thers"respect" \<1U·
Bureaucrat
You enjoy the solace and comfort that the System provides for you. You under­ sranJ chat chaos might come at any moment. However, if the proper procedures are 111 place and are followed, chaos can be averted, and everyone will be much happier
(especially you).
Caregiver
You are highly concerned about other wraiths, helping them fight the constant pull of Oblivion. Those whodeserve helpshall receive whatever aid you can render.
Child
You are at rimes naive and have an air of innocence about you, hut at the same time, you know that you can get what you want if you pour and grump enough.
Conniver
You tr) to ger ahead of in the world by taking advantage of others. As far as you're concerned, the rest of the population consists of suckers for you to exploit, aurhoriues co circumvent and rivals to be avoided.
Critic
You find purpose in death by revealing weakness and faulrs in ochers, whether m artwork, an organization or in a person's habits. You strive to perfect others by poinnngout their flawsso thar those flaws might be corrected. Of course,some wraiths see you as merely self-aggrandizing, but what you do is done for their good.
Explorer
The excitement of finding new people, places and things fills your existence with the greatest excitement imaginable. Ir's nor what you find that's important, 1C1s the discovery itself char matters and consequences be damned.
Follower
Leaders are called leaders for a reason. They know what's best, and the best way ro survive 1s to obey their orders. You don't believe in stepping out of line by being original.
Gambler
You do thmgs, nor for rhe outcome, but for the thrill char the action provides. Whether you win or lose isn't necessarily important; you thrive on the high that comes from risking yourself time and time agam.

Jester
Someone's got to lookon the bnght side ofdeath, and that someone's you.Just because you're dead doesn't mean char you can't lighten the mood a bit - you al­ ways were fond of gallows humor.
Leader
You know what's best for everyone, and anyone who disagrees with you is mis­ guided at best. Getting others to follow you isn't a matter of if, it's a matter of when.
Martyr
You are always willing to sacnfice yourself for the betterment of everyone else. Knowing that someone else is happy makes any misery you put yourself through Worthwhile. You don't want any rewards other than recognition for your sacrifices,
though a monument to keepyou from bemg forgotten once you've sacrificed yourself
for the last time might be nice....
83
Mediator
Oblivion
There's alway a middle ground chat can be reached, and you specialize in help. mg people find 1t. You abhor conflict, and will do whatever it cakes to ensure com. promise and a peaceful solution.
Rebel
The System needs to come down, and you're just the one to start it tumbling. There's always something you're reacting against, though you don't necessarily have a better solution in minJ. You just know that things can't otay the way they are.
Scientist
So many of the Underworld's problems are caused by people not rhinkmg thmg$ through. You'll analyze every bit of data that comes your way before acting, formu­ late a logical plan, weigh the consequences, and go. Of course, sometimes this results in your getting sidetracked, but accuracy is more importanr than speed.
Survivor
You will never say never, even during the final descenr to the Void. No matter what Fate throws at you, you'll fight co che bmer end for just one more minute of existence.Sometimes this meanssacrificing things-or people - but hey,a wraith's got to do what a wraith's got to do.
Traditionalist
What worked for your Reaper and your Reaper's Reaper works for you. There are tried and true waysof dealing with thmgs, and you follow them because they work. Why rake a chance on something new when the old standbys are still standing by?
Visionary
You have a goal that drives your very existence, something more and unimaginably greater than just existence. This is the thing chat drives you, and you won't rest unul it's achieved. Let others worry about the day-co-days; you've got much bigger fish to fry.
Traits
hen a writerdoe,;n't have the timeor need to demonstrate what a character is like, descnpcive words are used. These words mu:,t he carefully selected so that they reveal all the important features of
' the character', persona.These words are the adjectives: "Violerca was a gracef11l,auracti1,e woman - beguiling co look upon, but cal· lous and !llCdess when engaged in conversation." In Oblivion we use these adjectives in much the same way. Indeed, they are the basisof the game system. We call them Traits.
Traits have two primary purposes. The first purpose 1s to enable you to describe your character concretely and thereby empower your roleplaying. The second is to enable you to mreracc with other characters by means of the mechanics of the game system. The mechanics of Oblivion revolve around the Trait system. Challenges becween characters are resolved using chem.

The premise of thissyotem is that a character who isdescribed bya specificTrait rends
to be pretty gooJ at things that involve that Trait, and is certainly better at those things
C a ter four:Cl1arncteristics
han,omeone whodoom't have thatTrait. Forexample,someone who IS Brawny is a better 1rm-wrestler than someone who isn't. Likewise, a marathon runner needs to be Trreless in r l\l fini:,h a racewithout beingwinded, and a child who IS Persuasive hasa good chance ofamvincing his mom that hedidn't break the vase that's been shattered on the floor.
In thoory, a player can choose any adjective and take it as a Trait. However, for a numl-er of reasons, this is notsuggested for any but the most expert players. Man}'adjec­ nve,,are unimportant, extraneous and/or impractical; there is no nee<l for an Obsrreper­ ow Trott, a:, all itdoes isduplicate the effect ofseveral othersalready in place.
Allowmg anyadjective would play havoc with the mechanics of the game. Players would have to carry around pocket dictionaries and flip pages every time some En­ gli,h maior bid the TraitVigesimal. If there are a set number of standard adjectives u,ed as rhe Trait pool, everyone can be expected to know the meaning of every adje-w,·e and can know when each is applicable. For these reasons, Oblivion has a ho1 of tandard Traits from which to choose.
If you decide to add more Traits to the list, here are some guidelines: keep the number of new Traits low, make sure all players understand them, and make sure the} Jon'r duplicate existing Traits.
Attri utes and BiddingTraits
Creative players can think of ways to use nearly any Trait m nearly any challenge. Though this is praiseworthy, people can sometime go tOO far. Toavoid this, the general ruleon hidding Traits is very strict: You can only bid Traits from the category that best su1rsLhe narure tif the challenge (i.e., bidding isdone using oneof the three basic carego­ ril'S- Physical, Mental or Social). Even then, however, not all Physical (or Mental, or Social) Traitsare appropriate to all Physical (or Mental, or Social) Challenges.
Beginning players might thmk they can use all their Physical Traits in combat. This is incorrecr. If your character is trying to kicksomeone, Resilient is nor an appro­ priate Trair co bid as part of ihe attack. Likewise, if your character is trying to figure our if someone i.:; a Spectre, Creauve might not be an appropriate Trait.
Forsuch an "inappropriate" Trait to be allowed, both parties must agree. When an opponent bid a Tran that you feel is extremely inappropriate, politely tell him that you're not gomg to allow its use. lfhe is insistent, reevaluate your grievance. lf you still can't agree, appeal roany wimess of the comest. Then, if there is still deadlock and no one iswilling to compromise, seek oura Narrator to make a ruling. Appeals roa Narrator, however, should occur very, very rarely. Learn to handle confrontation:. on your own, quicklyand without interplayer conflict. Oblivion isa social game, andquick resolutions ofout-of-game maners makes the game more entertaining for everyone.

Oblivion
""'l
·=-- i£ll,ll.
p ysical Traits
•================,■
Athletic: You have conditioned your body to respond well in full-body move- meocs, especially in competitive events.
Uses: Sports, duels, running, acrobatics, and grappling. Brawny: Bulky muscularstrength.
Uses: Punchmg, kicking or grappling in combat when your goal is to inflict damage. Power lifting. All feacs of strength.
Brutal: You are capable of taking nearly any action in order to survive. Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy.
Dexterous: General adroitness and skill involving the use of one's hands. Uses: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee or Firearms). Pickpocketing.Punching. Enduring: A pecsistent sturdiness against physical opposition.
Uses: When your survival is at stake, this is a good Trait to risk as a second, or successive, bid.
Energetic: A powerful force of spirit. A strong internal drive propels you, and, in physical situations, you can draw on a deep reservoir of enthusiasm and zeal.
Uses: Combat.
Ferocious: Possession of brutal intensity and extreme physical determination. Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. When in Catharsis.
GracefuJ: Control and balance m the morion and use of the entire body.
Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your balance (stepping on a plasm puddle, fighting on four-inch-chick rafters).
Lithe: Characterized by flexibility and suppleness.
Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging, dancing and Moliate. Nimble: Light and skillful; able to make agile movements.
Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling, acrobatics. Hand-to-hand combat. Quick: Speedy, with fast reaction rime.
Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodging, attacking.
Resilient: Characterized by strength of health; able to recover quickly from bodily harm.
Uses: Resisting adverse environments. Defending against damage in an attack. Robust: Resistant to physical harm and damage.
Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance-related actions that could cake place over a period of time.
Rugged: Hardy, rough and brutally healthy. Able to shrug off wounds and pain co continue struggling.
Uses: When resisung damage, any challenge that you enter while injured. Stalwart: Physically strong and uncompromising against opposition.
Uses: Resisting damage, or when standing your ground against overwhelming odds or a superior foe.
Steady: More than simply physically dependable: controlled, unfaltering and balanced. You have firm mastery over your efforts.
Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exonc locations. Piloting oil cankers.
Tenacious: Physically determined through force of will. You often prolong physi­ cal confromarions, even when 1t might not be wise to  do so.
Use:-. Second or sub:;equent Physical Challenge.
Tireless: You have a runner's scamma - you are less taxed by phy 1cal efforts than ordinary people.
Ust!l>: Any endurance-related challenge, second or subsequent Phystcal Chal-
len!(e with the same foe or foes.
Tough: A hartih, aggressive arcirude and a reluctance ever to submit. Uses: Whenever you're wounded or winded.
Vigorous: A combination of energy, power, intensity and resistance to  harm.
Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you're on the defensive.
Wiry: Tight, streamlined, muscular strength.
Uses: Punching, kickmg or grappling in combat. Acrobatic movementti. Endur­ ance lifting.
N ative p ysical Traits
Clumsy: Lacking physical coordination, balance and grace. You are prone co stumbling and dropping objects.

Cowardly: In threatening situations, saving yourown neck is all that is impor­
tant. You might even Oee when you have the upper hand, just out ofhab1t.
Decrepit: You move and ace as if you are old and infirm. You recover from physical damage slowly, are unable to apply full muscular strength, and tireeasily.
Delicate: Frail and weak in structure, you are easily damaged by physical harm.
Docile: The	the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits; you lack physical
persistence and tend rosubmit rarher chan fight long bartles.
Flabby: Your muscles are underdeveloped. You cannot apply yourstrength well against resistance.
Lame: You are disabled in one or more limbs. The handicap can be as obvious a missing legor as subtle as a dysfunctional arm.
Lethargic: Slow and dro sy. You suffer from a serious lack of energy or motiva•
tion.
Puny: You are weak and  inferior in strength. This could mean diminutive size. Sickly: Weak and feeble. Your body responds co physical stress as if it were in
the throes of a debilitating illness.
Social Traits
Alluring: An attractive am.I appealing presence char inspires desire in others. Uses: Seducuon. Convincing ochers.
Beguiling: The skill ofdeception anJ illusion. You can rwisr the perceptions of others and lead chem to believe what suits you.
Uses: Tnckmg others. Lying under duress.
Charu.matic: The talent of inspiration and monvacion, the sign of a strong leader
87
-
Uses: In a s1tua1ion involving leadership or the achievement of leadership.
Channing: Your speech and actions make you appear attractive and appealing to others.
Uses: Convincing. Per..uading. Keening and Intimation.
Commanding: Impressive delivery of orders and suggestions. This impliei;skill in the control and direction of others.
Uses: When you are seen as a leader. Dtrect confrontations. Compassionate: Deep feelings of care or pity for others.
Uses: Defending the weak or downtrodden. Defeating major obstacles while
pursuing an altruistic end.
Dignified: Something about your posture and body carriage appears honorable and aesthetically pleasing. You carry yourself well.
Uses: Leadershipsituations. Might be important in the Hierarchy for advance­ ment.
Diplomatic: Tactful, careful and thoughtful in speech and deed. Few are dis­ pleased with what you say or do.
Uses: Very important in mtrigue. Leadership situations.
Elegant: Refined tastefulness. Even though you don't need money to be el­
egant, you exude an air of richness and high society.
Uses: Highsociety. Might be important in the Hierarchy and certain Guilds for
advancement.
Eloquent: The ability to speak in an interesting and convincing manner. Uses: Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Public speaking. Keemng.
Empathetic: Able to identifyand understand the emotions and moodsof people with whom you come in contact.
Uses: Gauging the feelings of others. Castigate.
Expressive: Able to articulate thoughts in interesting, significant, meaningful
ways.
Uses: Producing art,actmg, performing. Any socialsituation in which you want someone to understand your meanmg.
Friendly: Able tO fit in with everyone you meet. Even after a short conversa• rion, mosL find it difficult to dislike you.
Uses: Convincing others.
Genial: Cordial, kindly, wann and pleasant. You are pleasing to be around.

Uses: Minglmg at parties. Generally used in a second or later Social Challenge with someone.
Gorgeous: Beautiful or handsome. You were born with a face and body that IS
goo<l-looking to most people you meet. Uses: Modeling, posing. Moliate.
Ingratiating: Able to gain the favor of people who know you. Uses: Dealing with elders in a social situation.
Intimidating: A frightening or awesome presence that causei,others to feel timid.
This Tr.11t 1s particularly useful when attemptmg to cow opponents.
Ui;es: Keening. Inspiring common fear. Ordering ochers.
:	( arterfour:(l1aracteristics
)laeneric: Peork feel dr,1wn co you; 1ho:.e nround you lltt interc.,tl'll in y<>ur
..-=tiandacr1on,.
UlltS:Seduction. lnt1ma11on and Mnl·mo yn,,.
persuasive: Ahle co propose beltevahlc, convincmg and com•c1 argumcn1" and
ieqaelU- Very u...:-tul when wmL·onc else 1s undecided on an 1,suc.
LJ,e5: Pecsuadmg or
Seductive: Ahle to	and tempt. You can  c  your good !ooh .md your
l,ody toge1 wha1 vou want from l,thers. LJ,es.Subrerfui:c and >L-.lucuon. Witty: Cleverly humorou,.
Gdwd as a funny person when y
Uses: Ai pamc,. Emcmunmg someone. GoaJ,ng or 1roulung someone.
ReptiveSocial Traits
Bestial: Your (:Orpus looks decidedly inhuman (or subhuman). Perh.1p, you're aldetal,or havegl,iwmg orangeeyes, or m.1ybe your tl-cth are jw,t ,1lirrle coo long.... Callous: Yl>U arc unfeeling, uncaring and insem,1tive to the suffering of other...
Yourheart 1s a frozen ,cone.
Condescending: You jusr can't help it; yourconcernpcfor ocher.. tS impo,-\lhlc co
bide.
Dull: Those with whom you speak u;;ually find you boring and uninteresting.
Convening with you 1s a chore You do not present youn-elf well coothers.
Naive: You lack che air of worldlinc , soph1;tKat1on or marunry chat most
carry.
Obnoxious: You are annoyinl!or unappealing in
Repugnant: Your appearance	,
youmake a temhlc fir..c 1mpre s10n with stranger.;.
Shy: You arc rimid, ba hful, re:;ervc<l and socially hesitant.
Tactless: You arc unable to Jo or ay chmg:, th·tr others finJ ,1rpropnatc to the IOCiala1tuauon.
Untrustworthy: You arc rumored ur perceived to be untrustworthy ,mJ unreli­
able (whether you arc or not).
Menial Traits
Alert: Mentally prepared for danger anJ able tu react quickly when it occur,.
:	Preventing surpnsc attacks. Defending ag:11n,t Arc.1no1 like Keenmg.
Attentive: You payattenuon toeveryday occurrence around you. When z,onw-
dlingextraordinary happertS, you arc usually ready for it.
.1.._, Uses: Prevemmg surpn,c amad:s. Sc1cing through Tempe,, Shroud when you
\IUll t expect1t.
Calm: Able to w1thscanJ an extraorJm,try level uf disturbance without lx-com­
lllgagirare<l or up c1. A wellsprmg of self-control.
Uses: Resi,tmg Catharsisor SllliJo\\ command, that rrovokc violence. When-
3 mental attack might upset you. Pnmanly for defense.
oolhion	i
Clever: Qu1ck-\\1ttt.-J rc,,ourcdulne" You ,hmk wdl on your feet. Use : Usmg a Mental Arcanos against another.
Creative: Yl,ur ideas are onpnal and 1magmatt\'e Th15 implies an ah1hty to rroduce unusual solution to your Jifficulucs. You can create amsuc piec1..-s. A re- 4u1remcnr for any true arrbt.
LJ,1.. • Defending a1iain,r aura n:admg, Creatinj? an}thin . Cunning: Cmfry and 5ly, ro cssing a j?teat deal of ingenuity. U,e,: Tricking othe .
Dt.-dicated: You give yourself over totally to your beliefs. When one c,£ \our causes 1s at stake, you ,cop ,it nothing to succeed.

Use, Useful in am Meneal Challengl \1hen our belief, are at stake. Determined: When II comes to mental endeavors, you are fully commmed.
Noching c.1n divert your mtenrnms to wcceed once you have made up your nund.
U,e\: Facedu\\ns. U,dul ina nonnal Memal Challenge
Discerning: Discriminating, :1hle to pick out decnils, subtleties and idiosyncra­ sies. You have cl:tnry of v1,um.
Uses: Lifeweb and fJralisrn-rclatedchallenges.
Disciplined: Your mind is structured and concmlled. This rigidity gi\·e, \1,u an edj?e in battle:. of will.
Uses: Facedowns. Useful in a Mental Arcano, contest.
Insightful: The powerofl{)()king at a situation and gaining an understandmgof
It.
Uses: lnveMigation (hut nor defense against 11). Reading auras Using Height­
ened Senses. Seeing through Enshroud when you exrect 1t.
Intuitive: Knowledge and understanding somehow come to you withour con­ sc1ou, reasonmg, as 1f by instinct.
U,c,: Readmf.\ aura,. '-eemg through Emhroud.
Knowledgeable: You know copious and derailed mformacion about a wide vari­
ety of copies. Thi, repn:\cnt, "book learnmi,:."
Uses: Remembering informarnm your character might know.
Ob,crvant: Depth of vc,1on, che power co look at lmething and Ol1l1Lc the 1mportam 1specc, 1f it.
Use : Heightened Senses. Picking up on subritles that others might overl()(,k. Patient: Tolerant, f'\:tscvering ·md ste,1Jta,t. You can wm out extended dela1·,
w1rh compo,ure.
Use : Faceduwns or other mental battles after another Trait has been bid. Rational: You belien m logic, reason, ,anit\ andc;obnery. Your ability to re•
Juce concepts to a mathematical level helps you analyze the world.
Use, Defending against erootion-onentL-d mental att.1cks. Not used a:.11n in1• 11al hid
Reflective: Medicanve self-recollection and Jeep thought. The Trait of  these• nous thinker, Reflec.ti\'C enable, you to con,1Jer all ,srect, of a conundrum.
U,e,: Med1rat1on. Remembering informauon. Defending aga1mt mNt Mental attacks.
Shrewd: Astute and arrful, able to keep your wits about you and accomplish mental feats with efficiency and finesse.
Uses: Defending against Mental Arcanoi. Plotting racncs or playing politics.
Vigilant: Alertly watchful. You have the dtsposinon of a guard dog; your eye
mis. , hccle.
Uses: Defending against investigation.Seeing through Enshroud. More appro- priote for mental defense than for attack.
Wily: SI} and full of guile. You can trtck and deceive others easily.
Uses: Tricking ochers. Lymg under duress. Confusing mental s1ruarions. Wise: An overall understanding of the workings of the world.
Uses: Giving advice. Dispensing snippets of Zen.
NegativeMental Traits
Forgetful: You have trouble remembering even important things. Gullible: Easily deceived, duped or fooled.
Ignorant: Uneducated or misinformed, never seeming to know anything. Impatient: Restless, anxious and generally intolerant of delays. You wane ev-
erything co go your way... immediately.
Oblivious: Unaware and unmindful. You'd be lucky if you noticed an airplane flying through your living room.
Predictable: Because you lack originality or intelligence, even strangers can easily figure out what you intend to do next. Not a very good Trait for chess players.
Shortsighted: Lacking foresight. You rarely look beyond the superficial; details of perception are usually lose on you.
Submissive: No backbone; you relent and surrender at any cost rather than

$tand up for yourseIf.
Violent: An extreme lack ofself-control. You fly into rages at the slightest provo­ cation, and your temper is always close co the surface. This isa Mental Trait because tt represents mental instability.
Witless: Lacking the ability co process information quickly. Foolish and slow co
act when threatened.
Abilities
Abilines are the skills, talentsand knowledges of the characters in a live-action roleplaymg environment. Obviously, some do not translate well or do not apply co Oblivion. Others have been incorporated into the Attributes of a character and can he performed by executing challenges.
Abilities allow the character to engage in, if not excel m, a type of challenge m whichshe could not otherwise participate. Addttionally, if a character is defeated in sucha challenge, she may choose to sacrifice a level in the appropriate Ability to call for a retest. While any Traits risked are still lose, it is possible to still win the chal­ lenge. An Ability lost in this manner is recovered at the beginning of the next ses­ sion. If a character loses all her levels man Ability m this manner, she may not use that Ability until the levels are recovered.
Ab11iues can becho,cn multiple nmcs to represent a high degreeof expen1se in rhat kill or fam1liamy with a wide variety of spcc1alues. This comes into play with
,L:1lb like Performance, &.1ence :md LinJ.?Ul i
The u,eof Abilmes1s oftenaccompanied by a challenge of one sort or ,mother. Some of these will be pt,rformed with a Storyteller who will not only assign the relauve difficulty of the challenge (measured bya number ofTrairs), but will a,tua11) perform the te,t with you. As a rule, no Traits or one Trait are risked for trivial uses (such as hammering out an obolus); two to four are at <rake in novel, unti-ual or challengmg proiecrs (soulforgmg an ornate and potent mask for an Anacreon); anJ
. five or more are mked by anemprmg taxmg, groundbreaking or unlikely attempts (such as attempting to ri."Creare Charon's sickle). Pertinent details concerning diffi. culry and the factors that mfluence it are mcluded with each Ab1l1ry.
Other Ab1ht1es, such as Subterfuge or Mclee, can be used direccly against an­ other player and rarely need the assmance of a Storyteller to use.
Awareness
Wirh Awareness, you can notice when things are nor as they should be. This is useful m derecung evidence of Arcanoi or Spectre , seeing if other supernatural be­ ings have been ahout, and sensing when something contrary ro the laws of nature is about ro happen. Awareness requires a Mental Challenge to see if you are able to derecr rhe strange and out-of-the-ordinary.
Br.iwl
Brawl IS the gentle an of h1ttmgsomething and wacchmg it fall down. It serves as a catchall term for any form of unarmed combat, from mamaI arts to two drunk.< blindly wrc:.tling on a pool table.This Ahil1ty covers everything from haymakers to eye-gougmg cospinning s1de-kicb, pretty much any combat maneuver chat doesn't require a weapon. Brawb are generally le lethal than armed combat, but this Ab1l- 1ty can be quite dangerous.

Bureaucracy
Bureaucracy, a.k.a. the System, is theoretically an organization forgettmg thing, done moreefficiently. With rhe proper knowledge of how that System funct1ons anJ how to unhze 1t co achieve your ends, you can get permission to do what you want and prevent others from getting theirs. Burt'aucracy is alsoa measure of your organi• iattonal slullsand lmad: for gemng thing,-done,anJ of your efficiency at man1pulat mg the System m both the Underworld and the Skinlands. Bureaucracy often re­ quln's a Mental or Social Challenge, depending upon the type of roleplaying the character performs or what a Narrator deem:; fie.The challenge's d1fficulry depends on such factors a secunry, access1b1liry of che information, and rhe cooperat1vcnbS of the target.
Computer
This is a geneml measurement of a wraith's aptitude with computen; and all thmgi, rcl:ned to rhem. It takes mro acwunr the \kills nc..:ei;sary both to program new wfrw,ire (or create new hardware) and the mt·ntal dexterity required to use existing equipment and program:;. There's more to this Ability than JUSt hacking mto mainframes. In a world where the opcmtion of basic word procc,,smg software1, otill a mystery co many adults, even a modicum of knowledge of ht1v. rouse a com· purer l':ln be a very powerful rhmg.
cl1a ter [our:Cnaracteri tics
Wraiths wirh Computer Abihty find the electronic superhighway an easy way tOacce.iS che Skinlands. Maneuvering through systems, gathering (or deleting) data, printing our messages to the living and manipulating computers for their own pur­ s  through the higher levels of Inhabit are ways m which chis Ability i, useful to die Re,tless. A Mental Challenge is required to accomplish these and orher similar acts.The difficulty is a function ofsystem security and access1b11ity,equipment, time and rarity of mformarion as assigned by a Storyteller. Failure can lead to investiga­ tion by possibly hunters and supernatural agencies chat alsooperate in the computer sphere.
Drive
h 1s assumed that all modem characters have a base familiarity with Drive, allowing them to handle an automobile with reasonable ease in normal situations. Instead, Drive allows you to perform tricky maneuvers, drive at high speeds and en­ gage in car chases. On the ocher hand, just because you are familiar with one type of land vehicle doesn't mean that you can handle another; there's a world of difference between a sub-compact and a troop carrier.
Older wraiths can be considered ro have base familiarity with wagons or horse, back riding in the same way modem characters are familiar with cars. These actions often require a Physical or Mental Challenge. Factors influencing difficulty could
include vehicle type, road (or Tempest) conditions and the sore of stunt desired Furthermore, the Drive Ability can allow a character to move from one game scene to another quickly. A Storyteller can reduce any "out-of-game" travel time usually assigned for moving from scene to scene if the character has this Ability and access to a relic vehicle.
Enigmas
The Enigmas Ability concerns your ability at solving mysteries and puzzles. In essence, it is a measurement of your problem-solving skills and how well you com­ bine the vital details intoa coherent solution. Enigmas comes in handy when solv­ ing mazes, answering riddles and the like. This Ability ts used with Mental Chal­ lenges In order to see if you figure out the problem before you.

Firearms
This Ability covers both how well you can shoot and your skill at maintaining and repairing firearms. Anillery pieces, mortars and so on are not covered by chis Ability, nor are archaic weapons such as bows or slings.The most common use of this Ability is m combat, but a Storyteller can also allow you to attempt a Mental Chal­ lenge co perform other functions. You not only understand how to operate fireanns, but you can also care for them, repair them and possibly make minor alterations. A character without this Ability may still use a firearm, but cannot benefit from any other Ab1ltry-based advantages like retests. Those with the Firearm Ability may also choose to use Mental Traits instead of Physical Traits during a challenge in which a firearm 1s involved.
At Narrator discretion, Firearms can also be used when scarfing for relic ammu• nit1on and s1m1lar gun-related phenomena that have no Skmlands comparison.
Investigation
Investigation allows you co call upon basic knowledge of criminology to locate evidence and perform forensic analysis. With sufficient expertise, you can conduct a
93
i===============-•
proper criminal investiganon, deduce modus operandi and reconstruct a crime see Particularly in conjunction with a few Arcan01, this Ability can be invaluablene. wraiths seeking to protect or rescue their Fetters. With a Mental Challenge, you o tell 1fa person is carrying a concealed weapon or the like. When dealing with ploll;n you may also request a Meneal Challenge with a Storyteller to see if any clues hav;
been overlooked, piece together clues, or uncover information through format tn­ vestigarion. Hunters often employ this Ability to track down wraichly disturbanc .
Law
Law 1s the measure of how well you understand the legal system in which you are entangled. A knowledge of Law will allow you to manipulate the legal system 10
your ends, confounding your enemies and helpmg your friends. The difficulty of the Mental Challenge necessary coaccomplish these tasksdepends on factors like prece, dents, the severity of the crime, the interference of outside factors and the punish. ment called for.
Leadership
Leadership is more than barkingorders. It measures how well you can get other.; coobey your decisions, whether they be issued as memos, orders or polite requests. le also covers how willingly people accede to your wishes, as reluctant followers are worth far less than willingones. You may use this Ability co cause others to perform reasonable tasks for you. These requests may not endanger the subject or violate the sub1ect's Nature or Demeanor. Leadership works with a Social Challenge.
Linguistics
More a record of how many languages you speak than how well you understand the theory of languages, Linguistics measures how many languages you are fluent tn besides your native tongue. Linguistics also allows for identifying accents, reading hps, picking upslang and a cenain amount of linguistic mimicry. This Ability allow$ you and anyone who also knows the language to speak privately. Furthermore, you can translate written text in one of the languages you know. This may or may not require a Mental Challenge, depending upon the clarity of the text.

Medicine
This Ability derails how well you know the workings of the mortal body and how to repair 1t in case of mjury. Of course, that also implies a knowledge of what 1s harmful to the human form as well.
While Medicine might seem to be a useless Ability to che Restless Dead, there are multiple usesfor 1t, both benign and malicious. Understanding of this field, com· bined with Deathsighr, can help detennme what steps need to be caken to protect a livmg Fetter, while an appreciation of physiology could combme with Outrage to produce some devastating results. Also, you can help (say, by giving knowledge 10 someone) a living creature to recover a single Health Level per night with rest and 8 Mental Challenge.
Meditation
In an existence in which the voice of your Shadow isa constant threat, Med1ta• tion, the ability co focus and center one's thoughts, can be an essennal skill. To meditate, one does nor necessarily need to be in the lotus position. This is a verv personal Ability, and one for which you develop your own technique.
Meditam1n can be used to cacc_h upon los_tSlumber. A wraith make, a senes of
le Tesrs against a Narrator, with each wm councmg as one hour of effective
$IIDPl,er. If you c1e or lose, you are not able to gam any more hours of Slumber chis SluJnIf ).011Jo win, you may test again co see if you are able co gain more Slumber h    Meditation Each level of Medication allows one "tie" to count as a win i-C cwo levels of Med11:ation means that you can tie twice and it will still count as
win),
Melee
Melec is rhe broad term for all sortsof combat that involve hand-co-hand weap­ ons.The detimtion of a hand-co-hand weapon is a loose one, as it includes knives, s,,ords. brok<'n bottles, chains, saps and ju,cabout anything else that can be used to
mfljcrdamage on another wraith. With the Melee Abilitycomes knowledge of proper care fur your chosen weapon as well. A character without this Ability may not use anyof the aJvanrages of Abilities m armed combat, including retests.
Occult
There are many supernatural secrets in the World of Darkness, and with the Occult Abilit),someof them are yours. Occult implies a general knowledge of things IUCh as t'Cludoun, curses and femme-celling, as well as information more specific to the supernatural beings char mhabit che world. Mose uses of the Occult Ability in­ volve a Mental Challenges. The difficulty of this challenge can be subject co many
factors,such as obscurity, amount of exisung data and the character's individual scope
of under..canding ( wraiths know more about their own Arcanoi, etc.).
Performance
Performance covers the entiregamut of liveartistic expression. Singing, acnng, dmcmg, playing musical instruments and similar skills are all covered under this rubric. In adJiuon co actual performing ability, this Ability also measures how well YQU know the oc,ecy surrounding your panicular an form and how you fit in. Ad­
vanced levels of Performance usually mean some form of specialization.The genius

ofyour creativity or rhe power with which you convey 1t is determined by a Social
°'8llengc. A pamcularly sensitive type can even become entranced by the use of thisskill. If using Keening, the wraith or other supernatural must be first be defeated maSocial Challenge. Your specialty should be declared when the Ab1ltcy is taken.
Politics
This Ability covers the theory and practice of polincs. With points in the Trait, youcan figure out who's on top on the local system and how they gor there. PoIttics COVers bmh human and Restless political srruccures, and can be essential in dealing Withboth livingand dead authorities. Mose usesof the Politics Ability require enter­ ing •mo a Social Challenge, although if the Narrator deems it appropriate, a Meneal Challenge might also be correct depending upon the situation.
Repair
Restoring anything mechanical, electronic or solid state that is broken comes
er  the rubric of the Repair Ability.This Ability coverseverything from advanced e ectron1cs to shoring up a sagging beam - assuming, of course, chat you have the Ptoper tools to do so. Among the Restless, this Ability allows you to find your way aroundsy tCll\!i that you Gremlinize, or understand where the best place might be ro whack a device with Outrage. Usmg chi, Ability usually calls for a Mental Chai-
95
· ·
•	==--	•  x=--_'-'--.:="'L"I
lenge, rhe <l1fficulty of which <lepcnds onsuch factorsas the item's complex,ry, tools
and partsavailable, extent of damage an<l the ume chat must be spent on the re,n,.-.,.r;_ Science
This Ability measures nor only theoretical knowledge bur also how well YOIJ can puc ic to practical use. It pu equal weight on knowing the difference betweena boson anda quark and being able to whip upa Molotov cocktail from chemicals USed for scrubblllg bathrooms. Lower levels of Science indicate a general familiarity With modem science; higher ones usually mvolve some sort of field speciahiat1on.
While the science of the living doesn't always apply to the Underworld, know. ing how things work m rhe Skinlands can help a wraith to manipulate them from across the Shroud. A Meneal Challenge is necessary for all but the most trivial uses of chis skill.The difficulty depends upon resources (equtpment, data, etc.) available, complexity of the task and time.
Scrounge
allows the character to produce items throughconnections, witsand in­ genuity. Many individuals who lack the wealth roputchase the thing:; they desireor need develop this Ability. Materialsacquin.>d withScrounge aren't always brand new,are rarely exactly right, and often require some time to acquire, but this Abiliry can sometime:1 work where high finance and outright theft fuil. A Mental or Social Challenge isneces­ sary to useScrounge. Some factors that influence the difficulty of the challenge include rariryand valueof the item,and local supplyanddemand of the relics beingsought after.
Security
You havea degree ofexpenence and knowledge of the varietyof ways peopledefend and protect things. Not only can you counter existingsecutity, such as locks, alannsand guarJs, but you can also determine the best way to secure items and areas. Other uses include breaking and entering, infiltration, safecracking and hot-wiring. Almost all ap­ plicarions of the Secunry Ability require a Mental Challenge with the difficulty Jeter­ mined by the complexity of the cask, the thoroughness of the defenses, yout equipment and the length of time required to crack whatever you're going after.

Soulforging
You know the sccrccs of forging souls into inanimate objeccs. This Ability JS very powerful,and requlfC!i a greatdealof preparation and equipment before itcan be brought intoplay.Soulforgmg requtrt!li the following:a chained Thrall, a forge, at lease 10points worth of soulfirc, an hour and a Narrator. Soulforging also requtres Extended Ph 1cal and Mental Challengt!li to rum another wraith mto the desired inanu:nate object.
Streetwise
With this Ability, you have a feel for the street. You know how to uncover its
secrets, how	there and how to utilize the network of personalities it
houses. You can get information on events on the street, deal with Renegade gang>
and the homelcs, and
somewhat squalidly).
uses of Streetwise re•
quirea
Challenge chat is influenced bysuch thingsas
the local
Subterfuge
and the
env1ronincnc of the street.
is an art ofdeception and intrigue that relies on a social backdrop to work. When participatinJ? ma social setting or conversation with a subiect, you can
t<>draw information	him through tnckery and careful probing.
[niormancm, such as one's name, narionalicy, Negative Traits, friends and enem1
be revealed by a successful use of Subterfuge. The first requirement for using tlus
:Ucyrwrerly L' that you ger the cargel ro engage in a conversation on a rop1c related
diemformanon you're seeking. If you can accomplish this, rhen you may state your
10 quesuon anJ mitiace a Social Challenge. If you win, your target must forfeit the anon. Rept.>ated uses of Subterfuge require repeatedly drawing your target into lll'l"°Prillte &scuss1ons. Furthermore, Subterfuge may not reveal more than one Nega­ tiveTrait per session, and it may be used codefend from others with Subterfuge.
Conver:;ely, the Subterfuge Ability may also be used co conceal information or
liewuhouc detecuon. This may not be used to counter the effec of Arcanoi such as Mnemos)'m,.
Arcanoi
Art thou 1101, faraLvision, sensible To feelingas 10 sight? or ari ihou but A dagger of dte mind....
- William Shakespeare, Macbedt
Death opens a door to things unknowable by the living. There are arcane paw­ as onlv available to rhe Restless, known as Arcanoi (singular, Arcanos). Arcanoi are secrets that can be either learned at the foot of another or acquired through expencnce. Theyare ways of using a wraith's spiritual being to airer other aspects of the Underworld, or m some cases che Skinlands. In many ways, an Arcanos is as much a philosophy as a craft, made of equal parts viewpoint and skill. Mose wraiths demonstrate apcirude for one or rwo Arcano1 immediately upon their rebirth, and quick! learn the first few pawers, or arts, of those Arcanoi.
Submerging oneself m the practice of an Arcanos can mark a wraith with traces of that power. These marks make her recognizable as one who is well-versed in a specific arcane skill, and cannot be removed by cosmetic alteration. The details vary from Arcanos to Arcanos.
Excessive useof an Arcanos will mark a wraith permanently, whether or not she is a member of the Guild associated with that particular Arcanos. A wraith diving into theTempe•t with Argos on a regular basis will acquire jet-black eyes, even ifshe 1w ne\•er met an "official" Harbinger. It is the Arcanos itself (or the environment associated with its use) that creates the markings, not any sort of Guild association.

However, there are many wraiths who have learned more than one Arcanos co such an extenL that they start developmg more than one sel of distinctive marks. This is no longer uncommon in a Scygia where average citizens are encouraged to learn multiple Arcano,. Usually, the multi-talented wraith will manifest the dimnc­ Uve patterns of all the Arcanoi she uses, unless there issome conflict between the
developing marks (1.e., Argos and lnt1mation modify the appearance of the user's eyes m murually exclusive ways). In this case, the markings of the Arcanos that is USed more frequently will predommate, though some evidence of the lesscommonly arts will trianifest as well. For example, a Harbinger with some knowledge of timauon (which stains its user's left eye bnght green) will have the traditional set
0 Jct-black eye,, but with a distinctly green sheen to his left one.
97
When purchasing A.rcan01, a character must first master the lower level, (or "arts") before movmg on to the more advanced one, For example, before learning Life,m-Death, a character muse fiNthIennate Abilities that form a 1:-a,t,of that Arcano,, (Embody m this ca,e), a:. well a, Phantom Whisper.. and Sratue.
Regardlc,, of the nature of the Arcano,, 1t is suggested that a character actuall1 learru the Arc.mos be1uoeen game ,essiom, as opp<i-c<l coduring gamepla), Thi, pre•
\'ents the char:1cter from sudden!} powering up during the cour,e of an evening ,ind throwing game balance off-kilter. Also, rh1s helps to reflect realistically the time 11 take, a wranh to master her newl) developed power,.
Attunement
"Atcuncmcnr" 1s a proce" of gradually pracucing an Arcano, on a certain ,ub­ Ject, mve5cmg Willpower so that rhe Arc.mos become, easier when dealing 111th that person or object. This process is main!)· used with Embody, Puppetry anJ In• habit, although the Storyteller 1s free to allow her pla)crs w .mune other Arcnno1 (such as Usury or Pandemonium). Pwpleor object, that a wr:mh has artun -d w ire called Consorts.
Each ume the wraith succe"fully mamfem to, Skmndes or hides m the Om· sort, he may spend one Willpo11er Trau,carefully 1denttfymg with 1t.The clo,er tht wraith was m ltfe to the object, the easu:r attunernent 1s. Attuning toa ,rrangercOl>I' a rocal of five Willpower Traits over an extended pem.J of time; attunmi: to a clOS(' fnend or lo, er may require onh rwo or three. The rc,ul var, by Arc..1nos; tor in·
stance, certain Puppcrry arts c.1n only bl' u,e<l on Clmsorts. It no artunemenc rc ult•
are given under the Arc:mos, the Storyteller or Narrawr should pick whatel'er effoct seems mo,t rea,onable -  if ,he decide, to allo" it to heattuned at all.
.
j	Cna ter four·(haracteristics
'
ended periodsofTimeandArcanoi
y Arcan01 allow av. r,uth to rett:M in order to <:xtend the Juranonofan art's These rece,t, are called Extended Challenges. Generally, they are useJ in with._.ffect!i that ha\'e hmneJ 11me,pan,,andaremo,tcommonly linked
oi that tn\'olve cr..>,,ing the Shrnud.
lhc wro11h wnu. the retl'>t, from that point on he can rece11t agam and .1g,11n co

thelength ofh1,art'seffecr wit	t spending an additional ix11nr of Pathrn.. If the
defdunng h1, n:ce,.t, the art am  reextended byone to three minutes (Stor,relier
), hoc the cff<.-.:t then enJs and no new retest can be made If the wraith lo,es Challenge, then the effectend\ instantly, and no new retestscan be made.
me wraith lose:. on hh f1r-t attempt to use an Arcanos that mvol\'es Extended
, he mu.,t wan threeto five mmutl."' hefore retrying. Some Arcano1that involve Otallimgc, re.,mct the wraith to a longer penod of lime before allowmga retest;
A,ano1 will de...:ribe the wa1r times required in thtm re,pectivc explanauons.
Many of the Arcan01 create effects that cannot be duplicated within a live­
aettmg. Flight, uidescent Slunlands - all l,f the,e la flymg, or glowing,
'With that in mmd,
mac players pick
y. This card should
used: the d1,play
else you're
ooe, not happen. It 1s
cardsat the begmnmg
the card up," doesn't cut 1t
.
Tempest,
Argo 1, an
-.hies wraiths
,..,_ from place ro Underworld. Ma,rers
t	bemg mole,tcd
very hazardou..
.c;.	:!'"t:
•================
c.m onl)·change d1rect1on by ,pending a P. thos pomt. A character with Argas
u,ually "carry" a small Rroup of compani s \\ith her, so long as they don't rt!_<ist long as all link hand,, one can guide cht rest,
The Guil
The I larbingers' Guild ca	n of messengers, herald, and
explorer;. They occupied a ni	•	 vemmcnt, workingfor
the Hierarchy without accuall	e1r sense ofh,mor led them
to  rve as a sort of Om;c G	the lo,t and bcM1..-ged.
Following the  breaking if	h bu.in- asU5ual for ITl()$t
Harbinger,, albeit on an md1,·1	entered bas,,. It IS Wllnh
noting that the Harbinecrs ,rill	sider it bad luc
to interfere with a H;,rbinger's	, Harbingers w,U
alwaysstop co rescue,  uls they
Harbingers art 1.."Xccpu	c time rhci
spend in the Tempt.fr i;rad	k.
innate Abilities
Orienteering: DISlan	torm oftht
Tempest.   1tntel·rmg a: I,)	t"mpe,1and
find the route to h1, ,lc,rinanon. Those with brienrccnng C/11:1 crave u, their de,t1• nauons da the quld:cst .,nd e ,est parh (usiJally , Byway). wd m m, ,t btacles along1	.
T e U!IC o( this power requires a Mental Challenge m	•ccnnme the wraith's whereabout:. and derumllk how long It will calce t e wra1t to get to htr desired desunatton.
Tempestpeek. TI11s arr allows a wraith to look		t, observing any  being, or rhing,; dri ngnelrh . He C.U'I be seen b	he near Tern• pest, and c;in e11en	them 1fne«I he.
The use of thi	Stat1C'Memal	or er robe alile to
look mto the Tern	lightly1.1"	f what 1s nearby in
the Tempesr, whtl	ation or blind rhc
wraith doini: the pe
Tempest Thre	pe.,r through N1b1ls.
Th-,,,e w,ch Argoscan	rralsare usually,mall.
and each is closed 1mme	gh. If another wraith 1s
very close behind or att,	mghands or some other
ml-am), the other wraith	the wraith who openc<l it.
Toopena NLhil, thew	ysical Challenge. A tie me.in•
she can  try again at the same	Henge mearu that the wr.uch muH wait one minute before

Basic
Enshroud: To avoid the hazards o( r e Tempest, tho,e with Argo learn ll t
how to hide thcmselves from unfriendly  es. Thisarr allows the wraith co pull ,had·
(l1a ter rour:(l1aracteristics
around herself, making herself unseen u1both Tempest andShadowlands. When
fntllCU\'llteJ,Enshroud causes the wraith to suddenly varush.She isthereafter cloaked
iD;baJows.
After spendinga point of Pathos, the wraith makes an Extended Static Physical
(llallenge rosee how longshe remains Enshroud...d; each successful Extended Chal­ ldl&a'11<1ws the wraith to remain Ensluouded for two more minutes. Enshrouded wraithscan act on others, even v10l tilY, withour bc·ng revealed, though they must lfll\ 8 Static Mental Challenge.before riieaction tn doso.
Wraiths who are Enshrouded must cross their arm across their chests to  indi­
cate thar they are invisible.
Phantom Wings: A wraith usmg this art ma} fly 1n both the Tempest and the 5badowlanJs. Flight is not rcmhly fast'(resemblinggl1Jing more thananything else), 1,utcan bea convenient way of getungaround. Wraiths may hover using this an, but
can never accelerate r more than walking speed,
The wraith makes an Extended StaticPhysipl Challenge rosee how long (cwo minutes per succ heis able to remain m flight. A Narrator may call for another Extended Challenge to maneuver throui:h or st&)"aloft in rticulerly difficult sirua­ tiON,such as a cramped room or wlndy conclirlons.
Wraiths whoare flyingcan be engaged in ranged combat and spoken to. Unless cloae to the wound, however, they c8)lnor be'engaged in hand•to.-hnnd combat. If a wra1tiis Phantom Wings to Pel combat, she ml  wina Phy,ical Challenge
aptnst  :bpponent to avoid being attacked a  he flies away.
who have Phantom Wingsshould receive a qartl indicating chiabiliry 11 the tkoFthe game from tlfo Stqryreller. While flying, they should display the card pro  ently,so as ro make othersawarebf their-airbomestatus.11the card isn't displayed, e wraith isn't tlying.
intennediate
Flicker: wraith with Flicker can harnei,s the natural distortions of the Tem­ pest to quickly travel Frum one place to another in either rhe Tempest or the Shadowlands. The6t mmi-Jump are only g<.JOd for sh0rc-distanct , generally line of sight. Flicker ,s alsoa good way to olindside opponents In q,mbat.
Optional: Flicker ,·an tlso be used t,1rapidly tra\iel roany of the wraith's Fetters, ridingsecret pathways w rbe familiar destmarion. She.may f\tcker any distance coa 1'-ttter, bur only to a Fetter. Her familiarity with her Fetters allows her to  instantly recall their location m the patial rel.iuonsh,p between the wraith and her Fetter in either theShadowlands or the Tempest.Thii; rule isoptional,asFetters may be moved during gameplay, and it 1s simply tmpossihle co expect the Storytellers to know the exact location of all Fetters at all rime. If, however, the player and Storyteller have lbade suitable prearrangement ("Om.: o( my Fetrtn. Js my house, and I intend to  use Fhcl:er rogee to it."), then thisart can be used. H6wever, if,say, a wraith's Fetter is a
:ipir character, it is unreasonable to el(pccr,g!imeplay to hair temporarily while wranh searches the area and disn1pc.s rhe action in order ro find her Ferrer.
S . With the expenditure of a Pacho pomt, the wraith may make an Extended latte Physical Challenge to reduce tra el ume by a couple of minutes upon each SUccessful challenge for the normal use ot Flicker. In order co Ricker to a Fetter, a

101
Oblivion
,=============== •
wraith muse spend one Pathos point and make an Extended Static Physical Chai.
lenge to shorten the time needed to travel to her Fetter. Flicker does not require the use of Tempest Threshold.
Advanced
Oubliette: This art is the terrifying ability to case other wraiths directly into the Tempest. By focusing his will, the wraith may either hurl others mto the Tem­ pest, or hold them in one spor, preventing them from escaping into the Tempesc or Shadowlands.
A wraith first spends rwo Pathos points and gains one Temporary Angst pomt, which should be marked on his Shadow Sheer (see Chapter Six). He then needs co make a Physical Challenge againsthis opponent to.see if h<' can throw her into the Tempest, where normal Tempest travel rules apply. The target may use any Arg abilities she has in order to get around once m the Tempest, bur she is in -serious trouble if ignorant,of suchsecrets. The sheer force of rhc banishment tears a Corpus Level from the target, m addition to the other effects.
A wraith attempting to hold his target in place needs ro make an Extended Physical Challenge ai:iainst h1, opponent to see how long he can prt:vent her from moving. The 1mpris,ming wrairh must maintain some minimal concent{ation rokeep his victim in place, and cannot useany other Arcanoi while maintaining the Oubli, ette. Any u e iJf another Arcanos ends the 1mpnsonment.
Castigate
If nor for Castigafe, the Shadow's p0wer would he unchecked. Those who mas, cer this Arcanos learn what drive, anJ fe.ids the Shadow, as a prelude ro leaming what weakens 1cs grip.
Castigate is ahighly personalized ArcanO\'. A Pardoner may use phy5ical force, psy· chology, meditatkm, -,ermons, rirual purificatmn or any ol a thow,and other method. co fight the Shadow. The exact dt:tails depend upon rhe P,irJoner\ tastes and beliefs. Mosr favor a kind of dialogue based on the tar_get's Shadow's Nature (Archetype), a proceso
called the Devil's Dialectic. Keep in mmd that dealmg wnh a wraith's dark side 1, a dangerous business - those whodahble in Castigate often meet direfates.
TheGuild
The Pardoner's Guild was almost a Herettc cult: mdeed, the Pardoners them· selves looked on their work w1rh a quas1-rel1gmus zeal. Jn the Guild's heyday, the iron lanterns marking a Pardoner') available service were everywhere. Even coda), no Hierarchy soldier arrests a Pardoner for hanging out her iron lantern. The Par· doners are indispensable - wiµiout them, Oblivion would have swallowed Scygia long ago.
The older Pardoners rend to describe Castib te in almost religious or spiritual terms; newer wraiths prefer a more psychological approach co rhe Shadow. Pardoners are recognizable by their mky fingers. sramed from the contact with wraiths' dark sides.
l02
Bulwark: The Maelmom. Her
guard herself and her companions from a a shield wall, deflecting the Maelstrom's storm
wind, and protccttng her from the cittenc1on of any passing Specaes.
The wraith musrspend one Pathos point depending upon how incense the Mae!, snom i,. F,>r
Necropolis would	one

that which wasspawned by the dropping of the atomic bomb would require 8. When attempung to erect a Bulwark, the wraith makes a Static
badsa Physical Trait.
and anyone she touche;;.
Soulsight
Shadow on her soul. With
may extend the Bulwark over herself
wraith
power level and huw close 1t lies to the surface. The user cannot examine her own Shadow. Soulsi ht can :ilso detect Spectres (s\lcb as D,,ppelgangers) by gauging the terrible strength of their Shade .
The wraith cnten; a Meneal Challenge against the target. upon a successful
rest, the target must holJ up her Shadow sheer for a minute. ,1s well as announce whether the Psy.;hc nr Shadow is dominant. If the Pardoner lose the challenge, the wraith whom Soub1ght is being used up0n can lie, withhold the Shado,\
otherwtSe tormenr the Pardoner.
Dark Secrets: This devious art allows the user rn learn an0du:r "ra1th's secret by studying her Shad,,w O( coursc, the Shado\\ may feed the Pardoner nformam n; spreading lies can he m the Shadow's interest. Generally.
the Shat!i'>w, the mmc honest} the Pardnner can force or manipulate out of it.
The wtaich expends nne Path.,, p,lml JnJ receives a pomt of Temporary Angst. The Pardoner then examines the rnrget's Shadow and <'nter.. an Extended Meneal Challenge. Each uccessallows the Pardoner to a k one qucmon of the target's player (orShadow Narr,iror when aprroJ'riate). TI1e rargct's player must answer fairly truth­ fully, but ma) indulge m Cl') pmrcspon l'S or half-truth, (11Shadow's
The target character may let h1s Shadow .:nrer a rete,,t by spending
An[llit Pomt;	like, havmg his darkest secrets forreted
test to resist only once per night.Char,u.:te shuul,l not use chis art as a method to reduce Temporary Angst ea,ily.
Purify: By focusing her will, rhc ,uaith may llnother wraith's Shadow. The ncrnal methods \ary from
Can email sermons, song, esotenc di mes or even flagellation
attack the power of
fonned; remember the No Touch rule.). Th,, is an extended, careful process, and Cannot he rushed without grave risk.
The wraith
tended Social Challenge
the target, which may become an
resms
ernporary Angst
If the Pardoner wins,
loses the Temporary
A.ngst Pomt bid. If che Shadow wins, then the Pardoner gains a Temporary Angst
103
.-.	-s
Onlivion
pomt as well as losing the Mental Trait that she bid. However, for every TemflOrary Angst point lost, the Castigated wraith al.-o loses a level of Temporary Corpus.
intermediate
Housecleaning: By cloaking himself in his purity, the wraith may drive away Spectres and keep chem from enterlng his immtdiate area. This arr can shield an enttre structure from Spectres, (within reason - 6nly the greatest Pardoners could guard an entire skyscraper). AnySpectres ln the a>rea, hidden or no, aredrivenaway.
Peculiarly, chis art cannot keep Doppelgangers at bay.
Each success in an Exrended S"ratic Social Challenge against a Narrator
Spectres who are present {excludtng Doppdt,mgers will keep the ward	o5 minutes. Any Spectres already P.rtsenr'"must also be defeated in
even if the Pardoner defoets the Narrator. Ant Spectres who win this challenge not affected by the.Housecleaning; any who lose-are driven 11way. (The

the Spectres drives current on  awiy; the test against the Narrator prevents re. infestation.) In the caseQf a tie with·the Narrator, aay defeated Spectres
flee the area. So long theHousecleaning is m effect, no new Spectres the area.
Advanced
r	-	•	.	-... ,,_
Defianc-·e; ThQ•-c;e w. ho know tInis arc can figh.t against their Shadow control. If the Shadow tries to.take 9\·er·a wi;1ch with Defiance, the Pardoner may
try to bCllt her dark side back'into place. Thisart can be used tphelpother wraiths m their muggles as well at an additional cost of one Tempor.iry Angst poinf
To r ist her Sbatig attemp.ts. to gairi cnnrrul,,the wrairh mus nd one Pathos pomt ande'hler ar\Extended Social Challen;:c. l¼cn s cessre<luccsher
I,  -.-•	•	-.	,	.I	f'  {-  7°	/
porary Anesr by.one; the Shadow ts powerless to prevenr,this. E!tcH success
-	"	.,-	IJ  )I
thienitial one costs the Pardoner one additional Pathos point. If che•Pard
a challenge, he gains n'Temporary\.\ngsr Tra\t. IrshelJsJ'Dcfi,mc	herself, she must en	t; E nqr Challe,f wich 1tpc first lci i.fu,$ if she uses
another wraith s·S ow;!{1e can con ufilth c.!ach loSf,ad_?m another Temporary Angst point.
Embooy
Embody is the art 0£ physically:;(a fe mg in th tmortal world. Like many Arcanoi, it defies Charon's Codc,by irs VCT)''exiscence; 'only the Deathlords have
tJ
authority to reach across the Shrou ljwirh•iinpunity. Still, the lure	the	1s
strong. The	in a wraith's very ,enJl:s when she manifests i powerful,
heady enough to tempt the m t  stoic°Ccnttl"rion.
The best way co learn Embqdr 1s co open 'one's senses, focusing incense sensory input available. Lou<l music, rhe heat from a radiator, the ing reflection in a lake - all can be the anchQr with which a wraith can pull
the Shroud.	•"
If a wraith Embodies physically, sH t)ptns herself up to morral injury.
rial wraiths lose only one Corpus Level frori1a blow or gunshot, but those	'
ii"
I	■
inatcriah:cd take as many Corpus Levels of damage as they would have lost in  Health Levels in life. lf"slain," an Embodied wraith is thrust into a Targeted Harrowing as
rhe Quarry.
Attuning oneself to a Consort 1s parckularly useful with Embody. Once attuned, all difficulties for Embodying to that petsoo (and that person alone) require no Pa­ thos points to manifest to the subject. Ho"'weveronlr the Consort can see or hear the wraith. This can be a double-edged sword. Other mortals might consider the Con­
sort crazy. Conversely, the s1,1bject may convince .other of the wraith's existence, rhereby making it eaMer for the wraith to attuneherseff to them as well.
eGuild
The Proctors' Guild had extremely tenuo\lS rehti -with Stygian authoncies for ccntunes. Although they did find Stygian employment, Charon's Code prohib­ ited Proctors from practicing their artson theirc;,wn. M,o,;t-ch¢ed at the restrictions, inreracnn with monah, whenever they could apyway. for centuries, Legionnaires wereencouraged to hunt dQwn Proctors.ind fbrcl! them intoThralldom - or worse. Since Charon• disappearance, this has eased mewhat, butdemonstrating a talent fur Embody in Hierarchy territory is stjll a poor tactitah:lecision.

A Pr ¥r's voyages through the Shrout.I gi1dually mark her body with peculiar parches oflight and dark. Experienced Proctors ofren wear.patterns on rhetr skin
ale.mco lig f dappling through trees.	.  -.• -
•	••...-	\....r'"': I;;:--,.,. r r.		,
InnateAbtl1hes	_.	\ -	-
Ghostly Touch: The wranh can exert a uny w !sper of a tilUch. Q:rhe mate­ rial world, weaker than the Innate  Ability of Ourrage, Pmg,. The wraith l)'lay not
10)'.! 1rg;:r .1an u t;:,;;_a,nout  emosti;, ecan O..!! ll.rywriteon
a fogged wfntlow, and m1b rake, all her concenrnmon.
'	LI    1
TI1is requir chc wraith to ma a.iStatic Physical Challcng,· against a Narrator.
Maintain the Mater.ial Form: This 1s not so nuk.hl;n ithihty in itself as the capacity to mamtam an Emhod1e,I fomi for a .longer dur tio'ii
J	'\ 	1-.(	ra
. This ability CO$l one.if at hos t5- ·	the wraiw must enter an Extended
Stattc Physical Challenge; Each succe,,sadds ro the numb11r of s1,1ccesses already gained for the Emhody power heii1g\1s -d.-••	•-
Basic
Phantom Whispe : The wrat[h may hispcr across the Shroud, letung his voice be heard faintly heard in 1he SkinlanJ .-'A°ttemarelv', he may manifest as a hazy,
translucent figure, only vaguch• reminikcm  f  his mortlll body. This art is not neces­ sary to speak with supernatural betng.; On 1tht: other hand, mortals who notice a
Wrnirh who has manifested using thi; ability may well react with mtense fear.
To use Phantom Whispers to_ ;cal., a wraith muse enter an Extended Static Social Challenge in order ro relay a shvrt senct,nce for each success. To use Phantom Whispers to manifest, a wraith must sp;nJ one Pachos point and enters an Excended Static Social Challenge to remain mareriali ed for rwo minutes per success. If the wr-,1ich attempting to manifest wishes, he may also attempt cofrighten onlookers by
-	·n;c.:
J	l	u:
making a Social Challenge :i aimt rhe ?i oolcer.-. Horrific foliation or orher cre­ ative use oi Arcanoi can moJify an-yh";i\lct'ge. Phantom Wh, rcr can he u,;ed 10
whisper and materialize at the same nme;'but,each re,1111res a serarare challcnoe
) I   \  \	.	" •
Statue: Th, artre mt:. thf ;ra1th ty t, J.:e a ,olid, 1f immobile, form.
Embodied wratth seems w be an 1,kalized \'Cr\t n of himself, hur with cold, hard flesh. While u,rngStatue, rhc wr.uth cannot.mpvc, speak or even hrcathe.Srill, this art can be useful when avoiJinf:!'Sr<,:are or,,r.mh"pu.-,;uer... In a crowded ubway, for example, hunten, may ovcrl ]fhe "sleeping murJt\a)?rant" m their hasre ro find their \Hatthly prey.
By pending two Parfi 15if!nd entcFp af Eli nded Sc:11u.: Physical Cha[. lenge to see how many me5  fi c Lmay rpuc\i ,or how long (u.,ually fi"e mmutcs persucces..,) c e 1•t!i!1j :•·,91am <?It ( h•':b r i:.coml'S fir..t). Tiw player may be harmed as 1f he•)',·erc_morwl:
Wraicru w,inJ.:.1 [{;_ 1P., Id ura Sr '}le J.1, 'il hle from the Story­ teller at rhe stat
interme iate
the  wr ith to munifest,as,h r mortal body,

_•a  LI	I	,,
1	y\
more or le . H Embo.J,, )1p .rnnce r 'ft her ':ul-111 SllOllf•?; or of her living lf.,As a result, m t,wraiths..tend.to 1dtak '-tl1eiI "IT"·'rnnc.e', becomin"
I {J 	·,	'  • '	' '	' •	j	'k	,l'	'  \	,.
more be wuiul whcll Emh&lied th!!n\ih,·y were wlwnahve;The form chi artcreate
.,ri	:..--  ,..,... ·.. . ., t	.	'1	•1
usually ;,dar1 r0111r a I	skir\	"'fllit,l.f Ji & a ffipr[ JIt -
,...  't
l crwibC
doesn'r'ap	t:aso  .,Thc  ratth usmg life-mJ)each has fleshcolJl  an_.	hould
1 r:,_; _,	/	' •· I	r	..	'	\ •" 	~	. -\, be, and,w\lJ eemC(Hl tantlr,d1suacrcJ,(a'b1Je,efkct lnf tl-ie C<.)ltCentrationnecessary
to marn ln ilibform);Al ll ll)?h ;;c¼_\-onlookc wori\.,lf)t	fll\)'thing;-1 ng wah
\	'--u'  ')	I	', •	,-	"!	i
a wraith in!!thifi"rt, th0$c dose to her in ltfe mav pi_d ur 01	differences.
.Ir'	.......	•  .1j 't'	-..r	f; ,
... .,,:,,-- ..-"['"
.\ ..,l _ . wrnii.h_,.. 	-.._,irn Pathr:po'ints and enters ,m Ex-
tended Stack Social Cl-ialleilge Ill orJcr.torem:un solid1for five niinur,e, per bUCC ,. This_form ca,.n only be U,j!Cd' • if the wl 'raith curr'cn' tlv holds[ .al huma. nhke form_ (rho..e Mohared into\anythinit)nI v7n}-humanltk'Ie cannQr·i use•LifeI\-i"•''D· earhfnThe wmirh takes
damage ,lS a mo\ rlJp!,w.,,.6-• ut•t (1. ,c., she.r\.\f_'.,O\ t.-J.!,._\ g•Q,lt1corporcn."lI), c, l..a. !Ji}JI /l''d) wh·dc:· m thi•s
form.
Advance
Mareriali:c: The1t\i3ith c.m a 1:1,i:i;) almost f1 1f human form, briefly Ju• pl_1caun1: hi, morrnl ltfe\While mau•riali;· .·,w breath/, hleeds, swears and cn_jop
\ ,, 	'J 	•1	'  '
his formc:r warmth. The wraith can Jp an\'thing he could while he was aliw. The
only rcstricrion lS ume-  rhi,>torm\ C95t in.P thos anli' oncencration is.staggering.
The sen,:mon of this brief c\i- tcncc is almgsr oveH",o'wermg, pedally to wraiths
\1	r.	• .  r
who have been dead a long time;,
The player muot ,;pend chr 'P,mhos poinul'kl one Willpowtr Tran, and cntc!r
an Extended S' tattc Soc'ial Chal\ le1.\n . Each •u' c' c,, all()WS the wraith to he com·
,  ,	r. r
pleccly solid for as Ion as it take5 tl)dnrn ono!brc:irh. If dw wraith t\ Attuned to the
rerson "iewing him, he may mamfe1t't'br on'l.hour per ,uccc;s. While Ma1cmli:ed, the wraith uffers any damagl' as if he\ \1 till mortal.
C arter four:Cliaracteristics
fatalism
Some claim that Fate's mark is ooTre,'Jer\.i.th, lng, even (and especially) the soulsof the dead. Fatalism is che Arcanos tha allows wraiths co read Fate's capescry, co the
extent of interprecmg someone's pa.st or future, Fatalism is a dangerous Arcanos; chose who camper with Face's weaving can find themselves horribly ensnared in its webs. There should be stiff peniiltics for abuses of this power; Fate does nor rake
kindly to meddler in her works.
e Guild
The Oracle's Guild enjoyed steady business in its heyday. Some say they di­ reedy served the Lady of Fate herself, ochers that even h\gher powers commanded
their allegiance. Rumors aside, Oracles were ptiied as advisors on most matters, and were so ght after as counselors by manySty@i.an lords.

ThesedaysOracles tend to associate witl1Chanteurs, Sandmen and evenSpooks. Manyfind i'L bt.-sr to not advertise their calling, advising only those clever enough to seek them out;\!_here is a fierce unspoken loyalty between Oracles hut they avoid
long association, wtth one ;mother,
Oracles prefer ga11Jy attire, aod most have arc ne marking or symbols of Fate inscribed on their foreheads and arms. The$e sig1ls ,\ppear on their own and cannot be removed, and manyap r todance or move on their own.
innate Abilities
Kismet: This is th;,ctb licy to r:;c.11,:i d gauge a person, situation or thing's
impt>rtance in the grand weave or how to read how Fate influenced rhem, particu­ larly m their demise. A practiced Qr,1clc can easily interpret a wraith's deathmarks or perceive the forces at play around chose with great destinies chat intermingle with their own.
By entenng a Meneal Challenge! with the cariec, the wraith can interpret either how much importance the target ha, i,n regard. ca.the wraith or how the target died. If the target lOlies the Challenge, she mu,t tell the Oracle how the twoare related (if ar all)
- i.e.,"We are enemies," "l am working toward the same goalsas you," etc.The target mU:,t answer truthfully, and co the t  of h'er ability. This power isvery difficult to simu­
late properly, and requires cooperation on iw part of players m order to work at all.
..,..,- --	r
olivion
l
Inthcae,e of the other u e of K,s r\ ,f the target loses, assuminl( he's alre-.iJy dead he must tell the Oracle how he acbiev d that stilte. Again, no di embl,ng or omission is pennined af the Oracle w_i6?m,'.!TSt.
Basic
Foreshadow: The wra,1th'	em m- -c	e\'s i.nterw.eavin.g ,mmds allows h' 6r
to 5ense when danger approach	,- !lffl_'iis:i <;J)l_der-pqt an:s v,brauons along LIS web. If
;1 wraith has thisability acuvared, wluc!'i  dem=tratcd by holding a Fore hadow card m plam view,she can enter a Static.Mcnt:1.lChallenge m,vder co not besurprised inany
•tuation. In other words, ii rhe wraith haJ Foreshadow octivared and nonnally would h;we been ,urprised, Forelh,{iow allows her w accnonnally ·-,,stead.
If the wraith wi '' l .,._-.se it<e"ha"d her Foreshado.w	inti,'l.hi,li-rv activated befo'r•-
hand, the unea iness it inspires grant thecharacter one Tempprary Angst point for each successful use// 	\\
lnterpretatio :The wraith can interpret a pe!)On's fate 'read into her ra t by means of this' art. Interpretation is typically used with me fi;,rm of d1vina11on paraphernalia (·rhe Tarot or I Ching, runccasting, asrrology or the like); anempcin2 this art without such props as for more difficult and likely to backfire
lmerpn·iation can only he used in the presence of a Narrator.Tht:. raith enters an ExtendtJ Social Challenge against the target. Upon each succ th\\;raich may ask a Nan11wr one short question about subJect (if necei.sary the Narrator may query tht.: target if 1t concerns her past and i11rcrprets for the wraith using lnre,:prern•
rion}. In the caseof quesrnms concer\}in1ithefuture, the answers will always i, more hazy a1'd harder to,read for which th CN td htay dcscn wha>t rt.of.cnances

che ta t hasinai:CQ_tJ:tP.l.i _!ling his\:3 b,(_1"$mroM is anempting·to ;art his goals, ift),ere might be something getting'.In the way, etc.) Generally, tliis can be used to fmJ out informataon concerning the upcommg plots that the Srnryteller hJ\ planned and 11: pedallv how the target might be involved in then.
intermediate
Guesswork, As a wniuh f!Sters Farlilism; s	,·m, leam-m'r d the interplay of
Face' :,,rotce,more q,,:.,_""-"L. Iy','"·en·m,are.-.,,ful \ltuau•cm's.GJucss(wor,1.=.a-11o·'wsa wnu'th to " rea•-1i
"	I	,,,,",,..	l'J --'	 - I	J ,_,.f d	;_r,."_..-..-.,th·
mro someone e1..-es11c.t1oi,;,fflw intuJU\'e )'. re.wn even Qft'  erargct acts.
' ,  r,� 	. .
Byspendmg two·Patnos, n wraith may;cncera Mental f'hallenge with any wr.mh
:.he 1s an conversation
.	I	. --"
with. If the Oracle wins the im
\I	'I.	.
challenge (and either 11c,
or wms if a retest is calu\d,(or), her "i'pt>nent mtbt,iletb.re what ha next acraon would have been No lyin\:krcrmijit.-d,obvi itsly.
Advanced
Luck: The secrets of rh al le"el of i:; nli m permtts a wmith co make mmor adjustments to Fate at lt} y invokin :.F?ie's ble, ing, a wraith can enjoy greater succe in herefforr,,.
At the hegmning ofeach gJme 1?{1,u wr.uth may.pend two Patho points anJ one Willpower Trait, rand enter intuan Exce '-Sd,ric Mental Cruillenge with ,1 Narrator.'f:1e
numberofsue = ual the number ol' in c lleni;t.-s the player may_change w ue, when the wrauh decade to m.1ke u.,;e of tlw'"luck granted from usmg tha, abalu:y. 1lit
·I.U.,.i,r
•
Narrator marksdown on a Luck card for the wraich how many times she may make use of
dieart. With each use che wraith must visibly mark off one of her previoussuccesses.
ux
This art allows a wraith co_,manipulate and  ammate objects created by the liv­
ing, regardless of whether the objects have an,y true value. Many Alchemists claim that che act of creation has imbued the items with a life of their own, and chat chis pseudo-vitality is what permit§ them to give false life to the objects in the first place.
pieGuil
Forcenturies, the Alchemists studied the energy within  biects.Just as the Usu­ rers understood the f11>w of energy from one being t<> :mother, the Alchemists' ex­ periments cencered on the rel c1ve strength and weakn ss o( obiects. Like their mor­ tal counterparts, tht,Alchemists tried to understand the com ents of matter, and thereby learn hqw be:;r tb manipulate it. Of course, this Guild \l.'aS always in demand by those who wished  o obtain relics, as well as chose who sought to protect their
Fetters in the:Skinlands. Alchemists worked 1n tandem with their partmt Guild, the Artificers, untll Charon's decree-disbanded them. At rh.actime, the force of the Die­ nan Morn,wm began tQdiscourage congress with the Skinlands even further, and the Alchemisis were driven·fron• Srygia.
A,lchemiscshavt no identifying Quild marking, t,uc mt'.),S?are compulsiV\ e tinker-
ers or, teers1andwill ra.lk incessant;}y about their work and Arcanos. _
innateAbilities
Gnve Mold: The wraith may oiusesponr.aneous	of!ichen and mildew
in small areas. By tepeace<l usc,of thisabthcy, the wraith can spread decaf.throughout

a house. The'mold d0<$ not'have any affect upon Irving matter.
A wraith must enter 11 Static Physical Challenge to be ;iblt c/tfd this art. A note should be left in the affected arelct>indicate the an's usage
Basic
Altered States: By means of chis arr,and the expenditure of one point of
Pathos, the wraith ma  rher age or strengthen a non-living item. In the case of trying cause an item tQ'rJt or age, the carget itc1n must be smaller than a computer
and weigh less than a h 1 <lred pounds. In th ca c of rryin!I! ro strengthen an object, the Alchemist alters the srruccure of the obiect ,aat,any attempt ro damage or break the object will besignif1qmtly more difficult, meffect giving the object Physi­ calTraits which can be bid agai1nst any '9.ttempt t,l de.may it.
Either use of Altered St t,es rettuire ei-ncring into a Extended Static Physical Challenge to determine by how m ch the wrauh can strengthen or weaken the tar-
11
get item.	_\\
Decay: This art allows a wraith co pn1m6re significant decay in man-made ohjeccs. With a sufficient number of successes 11\ an Extended Static Physical Chal­ lenge, wood crumbles at the lightest touch and iron rusts co the point where it loses all structural imegriry. The Alchemistl.' Guild found this ahiliry very useful in con-
vincing rhe Quick to
oolion
areas where'1hey were nor wanted. Later mod1ficarions
- ,uch as u,ing this arcon moving velifc"I '-::;:-a,,ured the Alchembt, that rhey had found a certain method of keeping rJ1 hdfg l.bay. Theeffectscaused by Decaycan be impressive, despite che fact chat/he actual \uea covered 1s often only that oaf smglc link of cham or a similarly fuiall compo Jm.
Like rhe Altered State, abbfcy to ror th\pNrhis art b often u,eJ in place of Inhabit to bring small obieccs across che Shroud a Relic.\.
I. ') '\
Byspending twopoint,,if Pathosand entering mfoan
Challenge, the wraith can speed up the forcti q'f &k\r on a pecific object. The
I	,	n  • I  \,.  .
object cannot lx l:uger tlfan a clenched fac, howe\'er. Eachsuccess on the challenge removes a Trait from the'object m question (N.irratc Niscrecion for obieccs that d0n'c have a pre-listed umber of TrattS), and rht effe t1\lnu,r be either announced to m,1kesur l-at allother playersa	of th m. An
' '	s'	,	.... "		"t.  \	.
however, make a S,,cial Chal,\enge 1f acrempuninr it ,pec. f,1:mh
stealth.
intermediate
Puppet Theatre: Thi, artallom"th'iwiai'i.h to animlllC ,cv ral.small
0
at one time, t 1'K:1lly several objects of like narur0'¼ wra11h mighl ah ate
dolls fro '!Jlollhmise,(anf1e dollqfuse, a  wcltj_l	·a ,·I full of iar,
on as a whole i5con 1dered to have'the samc,numberoi Phy,1cal'Traits wra1•th, b.ut,. ca;ch •mdt v1·dua1"IJ•!.lppet"h a"_1on1•ya fr.nctipn or· "t1l.<,1Se T ra-it, i-n'd.·i'vid ua11y,
all ubjeci .an:,limited by their n.1 e. A c illcction bf stuffed amtri;I,'could
mo,·1:,1:."a"\-ut,0,,1, \ 111•c	'U	"'\	b'. ,1..	f	I' 1  Id
only oew,,-d r,
!I_..!
:in eyen grapp ea target, uc a couection o penc1s-cou

\ \,  ',	11   J', 	Ii	..- ,
_	\  ;::,,,	',  r
Us	Puppct,T	ires	Extended St.me M tal Challengc.iTI1c wraith
,.  1. 11\1 ;t···,. ,,!' 'h·	I	. ,	h.,	1,,. h
aCUJn.llt, rpor pbl N,,-.th	h ,•. asnta, T tts,:,eaccces,&jOJI t
tended Ch!lknge willpall\lW him to add one m,,re ii u cd on bo;h\1Je th Sh"rbud. Jnd1to;ts cio ra:
Advanced
Automato'nfffi11stui'allows_ia:h·l1cer,1lih bJild1{A  dy from	an
her
, i. ;'	-.	"-.,.-	\; _..,,,,
The
�T',;
\,.	' '  •  •	,  • .,	I ,
or  ,·mually any mher IJl)Jtet created liv.humans. 'fne b_odt hi,, the same
Tram as the wraith, •b' ii\n" is still limited-, 'byl fthe laws	A
emirely of tissue paper)_f\!wr st:ind uj1 a,gijmr ti)r.!;en ia,l rainfalls wry well,
likely to be thrown about by,mong breezes:Thc automaton	by use
l  \	._	•	"'
i capable of si",,ht, touch a > \\ en Sr"( "" ·:-----..
The wraith must enter intoa S1.,dc,Ph1.ical Ch tlfnge Pathos, plu one W1llpow6.r Trait She will al:li'i1rJ
three
in
The
co
her Autoru.,ron.lOnly on1/1,	to last ·for a scene/ /until the
relea\e her grip. Furthermore, any1P.p ,ic,1lTra1is \mt while the wraith•
,i ..._-,	J/  ,r
herAutomaton are not loH by the wra1t!1 lu,r .;lf.
Cnarter four:C aracteristics
A  wraith controlling an Automaton should hold up a card with the name of the
art rn indicate what she is doing. The c'omposition of the Automaton should be
,I' r  i,  \
derem1ined by a Narrator, or, failing tl acr'con.-e_nsu of players.
inltaoit
Wraiths skilled in Inhabit ar?J1asfers of the Inanimate. They can mfuse their very es ence inro an inanimate object, m cimeeven learning how to animate their "home." If an ohiect is JescrO\·.:d while a wraith occupies ir, the item immediately becomes a relic. Masters of lnhahit.can even imbue an ol;,J ct with their own Arcanoi, gr.idually pouring Corpu anlWillpower Trairs inro me. item to create a form of
inexpensive yet powerful Amfatc.
There aresome advantages to attuning Inhab1.t to a specificobject. Br preparingan inanimate Consort, a wraithL:m exert m(.)re control over it:> functipns when Inhabiting it. Wrc1iths must spend Willpmvcr Traits while Shellnding an object co attune it.
T eGuild
The proud Amficers claimL'<l ro bt7,n9t oi:_11:. he riches[ of the Guilds, but also the eldest. Nhudri himselt, the Artilicers say, created rhe1r Guild m order to train helpers for h1,forge. ll1e.practitioners ofother Atc nm quickly recognhcd the assets of such organization, .ind followed the Artificers i formmg their own Guilds.
Alr_ifough m/iny ex-Amfl.ccrs are \till employed as soulforgers, it is illegal to use
or teac; h Inhabit m m..any places. Wh1l.: soulforging 1s :i vital part of the Sty.gian economy, those Artifit1:;r.; who know only lnhal:>1t'$ secrets Jwell in squalor a far cry
1	•
fR1m the ,,glory of the firsr Guild.
Most Artificers are charred or marked with reddish patches from their work at
the soulforne . Younger Amficcrs s11ccializing in compurer-basetl am have charred tracerie of circuit-board patterns imread.
innateAbilities
Sense Gremlin: "Greinlir.'' 1s a slang term for wraiths whq possess machines. A wraith may carefullyexamine an ol;>jecr with thii..ibiliry, deremuning if any wraiths are currently m residence.

'\_ \\ 	, ..._, 'i   I\ 	1! l I 'II.[ 1 p
The player only nc b rogee lllle success in a Static Mental Challenge in order to determine whether etr not a machin i'si habited. More successes through an Extended Static Meneal Challengl' are u,tfJt fol determining the Shellriding emity's
nature (or numbers), With 11-iree or more .j e I ch ll nges, the wraith can even
tell 1( a machine has beenr ndy lnh  d (assum!tjg a Narrator i:, present to verify this)	"' 	• ' - • •
\
Shellride: The wraith may slide his Corpu without hann into a machine or object, h1dmg there from other wrlliths. He hJs nc conrrol over the object, only remaining within umil he choo es' to leave.  ,.
The wraith makesa Static Physic.11 Challenge toslipsafely mto an object. While there, he can be only be dececred by•sense Gremlin However, 1f the host object is de.srroyeJ, the wraith immediately take\ a'C.,rpu Level of Jamage and is forced our. Multiple wraiths can Shellride the same'device, assuming 1r 1s large enough.
Oolivion
If Sense Gremlin is not u,..-d, a wraith Shellndmg i5 consi<lt'rcd tu he invisible to both Skinland, and Shadowlands J ;,.{en,. While using this basic ahiltty, a Shellndmg wraith must hold upa Shellrid card.
'	\•  Surge: By  passing his  hand		\  electronic Jcv1ce,  the  wrn1th  may
cau a temporary short, briefly cifcting.it \r. This disrupuon of the electron flow cm actually damage computbi: -mi:l'!)tfle; lcate instruml!nts, especially tho,c without surge prmectors.   • ',  ' ·,   ,•• '
IP	J,	,	 ,  .. ). ,
The wraith makes a St:m&Meiual Challenge m order m shore the Jt>vice in
que!>tion. In the ca-.e the wrlith \l.'Mts w ,hori mo'J,!han_ one device, an Extended
,, :.I r	•	\ .
Mcnt.1I Challenge 1s necd lv succes,allow, ch wr.uth to ,end a surge through
to another machine. Skmlai1 /esfdents won't notic"c_thi wra1rh, JUSt miichine,shu1- tin2 down.	--•• •	••
Basic
Lightning's Bite: This an allows a A.'rcific -to\i·riibue\  'S_kinlanJ, ohicct or
a relic with a Sta!'' electrtcal charge. TheJn1c.kk'hi,h:!am g 'rr• nyone touching ch_e charged obJect, buc.fmlcss he succet>d, at a St;111c Physical Ch_allenge, the pcrS<in
w111 drop the 1•tc_·m 1mm.re<1•rnlcIy ant ma e an appwpn,1te amount o noise.
_	.1"1H	·	\1 •.
To use_tightnmg's Rite, an Amfker make, "n Extended Sc.itic Mental Chal•
lenge and,s 1fi th ttem he wanr, c\r;charg	achsucn givesan	er ,hock m
,	!
the sysr m; as ic_,were. The_ ire soch	c snoul bemarkeJ ns su:l;,- iths  uc-
ceedm" on a Mo.:ntnl Sca11c Cl1Rll,mgc will be ahlc ro c.lctc'Ct II haze l,M,lue Imes
I'  I	•	-...	l	.'	I   '"\ '\.
aroutlll m obiect r.:.1dy to Bite, though they may nocknow wha ,rhe lines&)•mboli:e.
-	'	.	-	,  '<ff l 	i.1
Gremlini:e.The"rn11h may possess m.J oonrrol m.,cl,111i,;,Truecon1r,  come,
only \vtthacrunement. S' pur-of-the•m<)mcnrGremlmizan. on all,ow,ofnly 111111yr, clumsy effects, ch as turning a.machine on or off.	•	•
The\":-_raith mu t sµ,:nd two Pathos io_,Inhahi_t a machinc(plus Q_n/Pachos rer

'i'	'
,ri
II •	•':	-	'  I/	'
effect evoktJ.,Agam, the S1 hellriJe c;ard must be h"eld.•up,'an<ltiny etfe•l:t'de 1rcd muH be narrated tu the room at _large.
intermediate
Claim: The wrnith mav Shellridc an object 11nd po 1,as herown hody for
a scene.
"'                         1'	·'.	J	.    h	h	t· i.-   '1    ,•.,    .,  ,-	I	·
H  er seruc, arc unai!t-, tc . s:wc t ac t ,.v ¾ire preuu-our over r ,e cnure
object s e is Clain i i , r exampl , a: '( la!ni' rig -tjic11n ,ee, h1:.1r anJ feel everychmg happenmg)co ut, wilhm 1t and-around 1c 1Sheitiiay cvcn exerr omc con•
'I,\'	. "'	,, '	lJ.' •
trol over the hose objectwhile Clainung it.
The wraith ,pends tht1\.rarhos pointln cerlJitoanExcenJcd Scam: Phys1• cal Challenge, with the n ,;,her oi succt. '.der:Gmihtng the maximum b: of the object that may be Claimed. hc nec-..1 only dn; fk e,s roposst'ss a book but five to Claim a house. A wraith may exert '>Ome comroi,>/ir herho.tobjc..:t whileShellridin!?
.	...	{f  {
(rummg pages, lockmg wmJo ,etc.).The e I! extent of her control Jt'pcnJs on
whether or not she is attunt'd co ch;,object and hriw many extra ucce5be5 he ..cored on the roll above and beyond rho needed tr1 cake control of the obiecr.
If the object is destroyed wh1liCl11iru , the wraith may rend one Willpower Tratt to bring it acro s the Shroud ru.\_' eiic'. Each individual item mw,c l,e succes •
fully Cl:umcd.
•
I■	Cna ter 01fr:Cnaracteristics!!!!·!!■!!!!!!r.
A wraith who is using Claim must lwl<l up her Shellndc card while engaged in Claiming. In addition, if she is forcing th{ ,1hject tu act many way, she mu,t narrate rhe effects she is causing. Orhers, eve1/, 1hcr wraiths, will not see the wraith, only
the effectsshe create .
Advanced
Empower: Wraiths with rhlt art'fan'tfre;te'a_form of inexpensive Artifact by placing one of their Arcanos arts inrt°'ar lic. Othe wraiths thereby are able to use
rhe art by acrivarmg the relic The{eh u:;ually must be ppropriare to the Arcano involved; a calculator make a far )Uperior vessel for u ury than an umbrella, for
instance.	r	, .. \  ,
First the wraith spend two Willpower Traits and makes an Extended Static
Meneal Challenge. Lilct other lhhahit arts, the difficulty eqtJals the local Shroud
racmg; m0i,t Artificers .Emp.,wcr reli-:, 111 the 	flaunts.
Next the wraith activates the appropriate Arcan01, art while focusing on the relic. The wraith make the roll and pays the appropriate1:0l>t; although no obvious effect results. If$Uctessful m this r,,l!, the1\y, i. h imhuc the  Ile w;th the Arcanos.
Next, he fuels the relic with rhe necess;irr Pathos points to tucl the Empower an (up coa:; many points as thl number of succ' sses on the Empower roll). He then chooses
whatever command activates the relic (a phrase, gesture, whistled note. etc.), and seals 1c with a Willp,,wcr Trair.   •
The resulc is a mirwr Artifact. Anyt>ne who uses the acrivation command and spends the appropriate cns1 for the art (Parho,,, Willpc.,wcr m Angst g:un) may use che Arcanos scaled within, expenJing one nt die stored Pa1h points. When the invesc;d Pathos (excluding the three- used to seal the relic) are expa,nded, the relic becomes "normal" once again. Empowered items cannot be "recharged," only Em­ powered a 5eeond time. There is no known w'ay to create a permanent Artifact with

th a
It is
art only b.e,performed
•
from of a Narrator, and that
each Artifact created in this mannt>'r.be identified as such.
Intimation
The arr of lntim..'ll lO 1, .l suhtl ·"e e} ela_ifti · s·ii··J e; todesires and obse:;­ SIOI\S. It allows a wraith.to discover the wants and desiresof .mocher, either Quick or dead, and rosquelch, modify, <W replacc rru.ise wants. E enfually, the Solicitor can so
completely overwhelm the'will ni hi target that nnly1thf implanted desire remains,
grown to a monstrous obse5:;lon.
TeGuild
Even in  shadowed Srygia,\he Snhc1r1m, en,'ly d a reputation that was dark.
'\..	(
Always more of a cabal than a Guild, thl·Solicitors were sought out by the great for
the ways in which their special t lents m1ghc- 1p the balance of 1mrigues. At the
:-.	- /J
same time, corrunon citizensavoidcd'thcm, unw1llmg to become pawns m the games
of manipulation that the wielJers of lnumau,,n played. By the tum of the 17th cen- tury, the  lords and ladies of the capital df"rhe dead became unwilling to rolcrnte the
olivion
Solicitor:,' pre,encc any longer anJ dcd,1reJ rhcm banned from Stygia. Thouah all
1•·'	,.,
rhe Guild, had been officially di,bandid ,bt\.thb time, any who rr cnct·d or even
held knowledge of rh1s now-forh1JJe \:cilno?\ ere maJe very unwekome m Sty 1a. This J,J lade ro .1lter the ,tatu, quo, orhcr 1r1m t, raise rhe Sohc1cor:,' rare, f.ir
services rendered. Even today, if th · rt o( m,.m1pulwng desire is needed, a Soltcttor
1 I	•
can he found in almo,t any lcx:ylf...as,umin . llf  \. ,urse, rhat one is willmJ,l to risk
dealing w1rh them.	) r	j' '	·•  ' • I
The symbol of the Sohcic9rs 1sasryl_i:e<l C-.atherlnl- wheel, denoting thm power
to bend ocher, to rhe,r w,U. Solic1rorsfawill ofrm cori hicr psychological warfare on rarget, by causinl? toy wfJelhobe wll.;i\rw  themi'-,;ppropriare moment,. The
effect IS gen_cran,;i.milal1 b that of thr legenda y ffsh
rped in new,paper. In
person, SoI1c1. cors can  .oI m(e/ t1• m\eb:-,..bc ·I Jcntt'f•'l 11,y ht ct tr i::a\t\.e;1'1nI ess pa.ms arc ta en co
J1.>gu1,;c 1t, a c, .1 ·1c1cor.',11.·e'r11eye 1. \s I 'w,ay a	,mI !!_Iipoi50n,ou1. ,I8':een.
innate Abilities
Twinge: By) a:i norher wraith, a lititormJy disC:: :cr what Je:.ire b copmo,t m ch.,t wr.nch\ minJ at the moment. Oi1en this yields inc<.,,clu,1ve re,ult,
("Gee, IcouId reaIIy Jltl t"or a pi•;:.za:.'."i)i1n.Aut• m..M. tua_•u. ons u( rcmt·negmI11t•1on or 1• mm1,
nent combat. 1c can o.;.:a,ionally• t,e. use' f•ul.J£?U'id<-.ro" what the ,ewed \\-rllth ma, do.
To ac<iir:uJ Twmge, the wrpitl, mu,i wfn II Mc tril Challenge against her target.
'	I I	;._',
Twmge 1 u tul only for i,:arnerlnJ: surface wams. It can:1<1t be u,t..J 10 det, cc deer•
M ated liniilmg,, nn11, it a sliortcu1 tu rsy1.h,,an:tl\5iof rhe targeted characll'.r. On a
.ii/ .· -	· .	......_ _	.	11  \_
,ucce-; ful Twinge, rhe target telb rheSolicitor his current want. If the Solicitar,fo,cs the C1-i lleng1c, 1·ats, mfonn:uion may I)(: given..
Self-Intimation: Exerci,e of Sdf-lnum,..ation crn:ihl s a Solicitor ,c•6·' resist anotht:r\ attempt t,1concrol her u,mg th,, Arcano,..A uccCS!>ful conrc,c renders the target im' m' une.r•owhatevcr ef'1cctb were •mr'endeJ,."Fat·turcha.,:.no ef1' ect' nn toa!e-' wrattl,

defense, ai1h,1 gh a tic abo counb ab,aucce,..,f Lresisninc_e  . . ,  ,
When .,n attempt to u,c lnt11nari(m' is m1de, any chara ter',,·i'rh' Self-lmima• non ha, the t .'\Cwn oi  ma mg a Scci11I Challenge against whoc,·erJ<aitempcing 10 Intimate rhen
Basic
The	Gleaming:._Worked on a ,;olrd l ject. theGlearn1nb make the ltl'm mNe
. '. 1hcrwisc he. It Il:an make a pdc,,o. f rock t:em co conrain preciou, gems, or a rust-p1tr,:d swor,dcc1111to glisten as I :i£hth as Excalibur This"
.tn un,ubtle use of the Arcmos, and a, such IS tht:iirsr !,lllght to aspiring SoltCl[l) .
A ,ucces,ful Sr.,nc M,•i'ital Challeni oodspendihg one Patho point mfuse, t e target obiecl with a Ius'te•,n;h at11d ('\.'S 1nM in rrut(nIp'osse!>!>. Any wra1•ht or 1\'lng
.....\	.	'1	''
,cing neM the en rcclled obJcct must mnke a successful Static Mental Challenge 11r
_	,I 41,._·	I	_
r,   f	,
they foel a desire to po ,e,., 1t. It the Gle-.unmg 1s,bhng 11\ed against ,omeone m th ·
1	1
Skinlands, the wraith needs ro  \  oni111c hjJg ph	in the
against J relic.
u,uJlly re,:,illlOlepd e,'.;Kmcing
,rems
che pins
which rht Hierarlh	,earchmg for, etc.) If the wra1rh
wanb to imbue rhe
w1ch the 'O{'c' llfOIil\!I:/'i for more rhan five minutes, rhen he
Cha ter four:Characteristics
can emer an Extended Stattc Mental Ch lenge instead of the normal challenge in order coextend the Gleaming's duration',.:
Objects marked with the Gleami tmu1t be identified as such.
Deep Desiring: By using Dee	1sable romap the wants and
needs of the target wraith in deta l·? d, ifio desired, remove a want from the target's mind. A wraith whodecides to .u,. e Deep Oesirifl$l to quash a wanr or desire from her
target can use ir to remove the desire for'.a,cer ain relic CD or even something as complex as the lust for power. This use of peerf Disiring can he either extraordinar­ ily therapeutic or incredibly desrrucuve. 1(1u eJ to 4uash a desire from the target, its
use is unsubtle; ic excises the cargcti:J nt-ed comrlcccly and does not bother to heal
.  J	.	.	J I.	'	'\.,I,
thgaep m the v1cnms psyche thi.:; act crcares.
' '-	I	•• \
For either useof     Dc,iring, the wraith must spend.t  points of Pathos and
'	.	.  '- '
enter into a pair of Challcfl$leS against her target -  an Exre'nded Mental Challenge inorder to read the, tarizec, and an Extended Social Challen'g\e.'to crush his wants.
The more success , themore·accurate the  reading. With enough successes, even the deepest, most primal wantsof the target are revealed. If the wraith wants co use Deep Desiring to squelch a desire. the number of succe&:;c-s reflects how Jee[\•Seared a want or desire is removed. If rhe wrn1th gees one  ,11cc!!Sli in her challenge, she could re­
move the desire fora ghostly h11lipop. bur it w,mld rake many mQte in order to eltm1-
\
nate a lifelong desire rl) k1ll II wraith's father• murJer
Note:The targetof Deep Desiring may beca!lc<l  PO!) toexplain whathis char­ acter actu_ally wants during the wur,c l'f the art's w,e;

intermediate
The Craving:The Craving implantsa complex destrefor anything, ringing from really gc-.xl Chinese food to seeing the Great Wall in person.:All of the  1ctim's actions anti wantsare warped around chis, which becomes the central thread of the target's exist­ ence. A succesmilly doneCravmg tan cause the victim w ,n:u1;lly obsess o the created desire to the exclusion of all other wants and nh..._J,. Like DccpDcf"'§frfrig{ se co quash wanes, cheCraving is unsubrle. The  new ddire i, plasrcre..1 onto the ciigds psychologi­ cal landscape, with no effort madfco ,m,ioth'rhe wugh cJgc,;. Assuch, the effectsof this
use of lncimacion can be easily Jetc.:n..J, a   victim can often he idenrified qUJckly.
To implant a Cravinit, the 11T.1ith musl Ahreluc1Jare preci>ely.$m that want is.The
Narratorassesses the ampuntd  uc.:c,-_.;cs nC\...J I hai;cd upnn the c,;,ti.;riexicyof rhedesire co
be implanted, and the  1lkitor then cnrcrsinioan Extemb1 ,ci;tlChallenge against the target. The number of sucics,cs indicate, hbw succc;,sfully tru' Craving is implanted. A Craving isnota natural P i :md du!subJl'Ct cannot gdm Path hyfollowing the Craving's call.Thisart costs eitherfoJr Pacho., fK>lllt r,r{Wl) Patho,ro,fnrs and two Willpower Troics.
In addition, one Temporary A• n"' !!- \ point i- s gaiI,m..J for everry·.-tfwo succ ful rest .
Advanced
Cupitatis:
IS	 ·ulminatlon of all of the other aspects of Intima­
tion. It enables the user coduplicate  he e( ccs·cif the Craving or Deep Desinng's use of removing wants from che target, but  b d6  o
Arcanos leave nothing
Desiri \ use coquasha desire for power will the desire and heals the psychic wound,
115
o li\1on
10 	rhe l ciror would appear to ml.'rcly have found w11h
sc,mble, if new, enrhus1a,m
JS rarely done. It
for this rc,1son, and bccau,c ,,f rhis/dwer,
Depending upon whether a	is to oJ,_,r,..mov.:d or implanted, an Extended
Challenge i madeaccording tQ'th{guideline5),(; he Cra\'mg or Deep Desinng.The number of succesi-e, ag-,1inst rKe''citgrn'ndicat6 Ho\ ,eamle,sly the modification oi
thi rt !!lives the wraith four Pathos b fJ\ercise, a d gives the wlclJer three Temporary Angst
keening
J  {	\  '	•  \ ',
,.	IJ	1-'	' '  11·1	,-JI	lL --  ,"t
Keenmg 1s an Arcano\ of crnouon rramn1lltcd by.i,ouna1\The ancient leg1mds of bamhees anJ H,o>rlY T lurn , haverf lca:;ct:,m ,b's1:!f!. enmgs,am Those emouon, who haye} tcr 11chti, .Arc;in
It	i " Ktiiich· ec h'for'a wraidi_1o'sl tif11s.: thb Ardno,. lf a wraich
_es co IQtten och er's emoc1· o·n:;.-L.u-1ro.Fuhg_.d an  .orau•on or l"Ven1 a'•l't-l!'nter, , c may,
It ma IrelIquire nn extra tc t, ,mce Ir u-s Arcanos 1s 1a11Ig11 It 1mug,.1 t,mg
tie in a rctis isconsidered II wm).	,	'
UltifmlfareIy. rhe emou•ons Kccnmg •msu'IIs are arn•f1ic1•aI, and cannot 'c•Q• mpare 10
the hf.,Jf rush of rrue fcelmg. Gaining Pathos from a Kcening-fod cmodb \s pos­ r ii requ1r<:!i on uJdiuonal rcresc which must bt• won 10 have a y/effect.
rhe PudlOS h:irvested in this manner 15 t•ar blander than usu'a"-i:r Ma,cers
.	'J_!
foeling hc,$ngendcrs m his companl{)ns.
T e Guild
y.,
H,1uiihcy and'QrrOJ?ant, theCh:mtcurs pndcd chenl!ielvc.s llO
brought mu,ic C\

C Undcrn·orld. WtCh an ,mastic huhris1 om as rrouhadours to the Rc lie,-,'
Chanrc.-urs recamed mflucnce.
S1ygi.1n nobles would do i1nn	'I,
,1on, and for cencurac,, r1\:( '.hanceu were deemed cobe
'  t\	.,.,.._._	., f
entercainmenrs in cercain1,odal..c1rcl ,j; Ev n rod y, many
Chanceur, co feel the dep\h'.; "' onafcmotiqnlJn.:e·fu e.
\ \	•,,,.--  r1,,-
mus
cape use noL-;ema en,or rhytIi! l
innate Abilities
'm,rrumenc of !>llllJe"ldn<l; even ch,.,.	who perfonn a
,.tmge1',cym a ,, castanet,or rumsncia-
Perfect Pitch: This i, the ihty.to-;;Jke when ,mother wrairh is acrivcly lL ing Ke,·nmg. Th,, wraith must e ac h nge aga1m1 rhe wrairh in question, biJJmg Mental Trnits in,tcad of Soc1:iJ ,n.t$ (as dictated by Sotto Voce, see below)
C a ter four:Caracteristics
Sotto Voce: With Sotto Voce, a wraith may hide her Kcming art, in normal singing l>r
but biJ,.Socia Tram agamsth er orr9r;i,cnt;S., enra.
Basic
Ballad:	w Ji1 h to  irn1i/re.ci1hcr the "higher" emotion, like
seren.ity, JO)', m1rth,
ht and
•,oon, r,r t c "Jar er..
ones ltkede,pair, anger, fear, ldnelincss-:"§rl"eforlui\This
Ill
everything from removini:: u/; ,anccil	a  .micular locale co prorccrmg
tters and ,waying other Jr:iiths into ailiances.•	•
To use
xrend S.X1al
' \
Challenge
1
against hi,, target(.,)
and spend,one point of.P.-'\thos. The mor ,ucce ,cs ,1gJ[p\1 h
deeper rhe emotion in!tf	-the;l\1li11a=iat1L'({ihi\!'11' aith uses chi art agamst
f , ••• t	I·"  I' )I·	1l" .[:11,tj 1•, '< •
can ea:..1. ly a ter a m4I :iI'sfmfi'ood u.>r•an entire wee . If''' ..'.J: ·a mst a wra1t , ca,
/.1	Ill	-  I	ii,"	\:J	• . -,/	'
succes• s la rs for rw• { o t\QI rhr'ee minute,. Ea' ch' use of.Ballali co,t . point, but when wnn.f_ti
rary Ang • poinras..well:
The	rhe Ball r;n IJ'hciiffiill ·fuus  beannounciU'at
the	I 'I
Mu :"-rbis arr allows rhe wrauh 10 make u sugge;.uon mto the a bj,,.ct\ ub­ conscio.u/I, impiring him with ,m idea he will belic,·c rn be his own. Th,s\J,.\i,,cful for
those wh't1continue to con1J\O e music. art or l1rcr111ur,· after de,nh, hu1
middl:,'a,n to bring1hc1r worL:s to the livin$!. Morecommonly, the art is  ll\uhrlr
10 manipulate other wrniths
By ) ding two Pathos anJ gaining nne. Temporary An1,-s1 polnt,,,1Ch:intcur
....\'\	;.;. /	, ..
can anempli-tll use Muse. The more buCccs,;es ga1nl <l on an Extt'ndeJ, ial Chai-
\ 11	'•}
l,ngc, rhe bt,_tter the target interprets the suggestion, which musr he phrased clearly
and in a sini!l? tence Three or fewer successes irnlicatcs that the ,rfugec gets rhc
general suggestion
Chameur narural
intermediate
pu1.s his own spinon it Foursucce.sses mean th.ll1h1{will follow the
it isn't dirt•ctly harmful; five or ninre comrt h1m to Jo as rhe
TI,1s art works equal!\· well on wraiths, mor:t , and ocher ,upcr-
n	•• '
Crescendo:The tvr';ifh ran sc.ream·.a mwaeal blJ.St hpabl oflfamaging ph,m at cl,"e range. By.,pendin\.rhree I ,ri('of5nJ giiirilngl }ointofTemporary Ang c, the wraith enters an ExtenJd St,11ZSixf.ri:hallf,nxl/The singer mflicts one Cor­ pus Level of damage per sucO!SS on every"tvraith h ormal hearing distance. The damage is not aggravated, and h•be ,;o L:'ed. Cr\!l. cndo cannot be concealed by

Sotto Voce.	.•, tt \' ' •·,,,..,..
SmJlmi: heamrop
.1. 11 \eo)AAiccs all listener, wich a terrirle
Health Level of &1111.,ge per cw, suc-
1 ',	,,
c e:.. Thi damage may also be oak_eJ, p ,w1ll nffcct v:1mp1res, werewolves, and other supernatural creatures as well
o livinn
Advanced
Requiem, This an floo<ls the su Jet;with raw, undiluted emotion. Any feel­ ing the wraith wishes will pour over the targel, burymg her soul m irs ride.
The wraith states the emotion h wants to project and entersan Extended Stacie Physical Challenge. Each success ,cored by the Chanteur paralyzes the subiect for one mmute, unless she is prepared for the onslaught. ln that case, she can mit1atea
Social Challenge against the Chanteur to ee ff the art effects her. If the Chanteur
wins rhe challenge, however, or if his victim is unsuspecting, the object of the an is
overwhelmed with emotion and cannor move, acL, speak or defend herself. Panicu­
larlydark emotions can sc:r a qirgec\ soul. lffiveor mote uccesses are scored witha negative emotion at the,core of the,Requiem, lhe SllQ!ect may lose Mental Traitsor
go msane ac Narrator discretion. This art costs two.P.ithos plus one Pathos per suc­ cess achieved. If the cmnrib'n projected is riegative, the wmlth gains one point of Temporary Angst.	'""	"  •• ' '
Lifeweo
Lifewe isthe study of che ties betweeo: raithsanJ the living world. A master of chis Arcanos'secretscan sense and man,pltlare the bonds ofcl1e Fetters, handling their enerties as a weaver manipulates her shuttle and l00111.
Lifeweb allows a wraith to m6niror her Fetters' energies, keeping track of them even ar .i distance. Some sit at the hearL of this web,· tending their senses to any "trouble.spot"as ids disturbed.Orher actively walkanl(m people, plac anJrhings,
marking some,as temporary Fetters io order to watch over them !)lore i:!f}fi7ntly.
Unfortunately, Lifeweb is simply ti)() difficult to simulate properly for it to work
well within the co.nfines of ObBvion. TJ\e ari;;':'?powers of Lifeweb are li.sted below for Storyteller purposes, but character s!:if>:lil not be penniued r6 take Lifeweb at the risk of running Narr11tors absolutely ragged. Effects are listed below but systems
I ',	,
are not; it is as. umed rhat for Narratt1r characters, systems will not be necessary.
The Guild
The Monitors weichock vita). rp Stygian society as tl;e Pardoners, Masquers or Artificers. Theyoften- tta/..-A.-'-ed their Guild members a'sReapt er's, and as such had con• siderable influence on the Lemure population. Howe;,er. their focus on the mortal
world kept chem from achieving as much int1ucnc .t1 Stygia as some of rhe other Guilds.	-	," _ ,..
Since the fall of their Guili.l ihc Monicor 'have hecome even more defensive than before. They refuse t ieacfother WnJ!t ny bur the most remedial arts of Lifeweb, unless absolutely convir ed of c,he ir . upils' trustworthiness. Current ru•
mors accuse certain ex-Monir<>rs (I(
1
nmning rrorection rackets, rhreatenmg ocher
wraiths' Fetters unless bribed, a	hs roobjects that are abour to be
destroyed.	-r,:_;,;· •
Monitors never close 1heir eyes 'nor eJ'/n m Slumber, and by chtS they may be dececred.	• '	••·'

Chapterfour:C aracteri tic
innateA ilities
Locate Fetter: The wraith mayj' neck up"onanyof bis Fercer-, scanning it, surroundin,1?. This ability abo permits the 'wrilith to sense a Fetter's Jiscance anJ direction.
Basic
Sense Strand: The wraith can scruu 'uii th patterns of energy surrounding wraiths and rheir Feners. He may perceive theJmk$ between a wraith and her Fet­ ters,seme whether somerhh\lis in fact 11 Fetter or not,\md ifso, iJenufy the wr:mh
attached co it.
'	.. •	-	; l  '
Splice Strand: Th .-.na1th ma} crl.aate an  attath!Tlent with a person, place or
thmg, making1ta temporary-Fetter.Both the wraith involved anJ the llbjecc mu,t be tuuched in some manner hy the Monitor Joing the splicing, ac which point the con­
necnon is maJe.The Feuer may be
Jay  to day, but only one tempo­
rary Ferrer at a ttme c.•,n be·mamtarned with this art.
intermeaiate
Sever Strand The wraith exerc' in"g:"°_t,h, isdrea.d;art can tear another wraith from his Fetters. She can only accomplish,t_his in ch , presence bi the rarget Fetrer, but can rir fr ,way through raw force of.wtll.
Aavancea
I'	•	_	..("l 11 II	,.,,..	•· • • _  /
Soul Pact;A ,wraith who has aj_iNered thft'.art c ,d?.igt awilling· ort:tl\ wul a hi. mvn. This h usually Jone as part pf a cont;r ct where chc monal promises her sou·lin exchange   help from "the o het side." Thereafter, while the morral
lives, she hecomes'a Fettet of the  Wt'!1th. When the mortal dies, the wraith becomes
irutantly awl\_r"i.';,ff,che 1ru ,nal becomes a wrimh, she and the Momcor c.oncinue their link.
Mnemosynis(ne-MO-sin-iss)
Mnemosynis	h e1ther a powerful cacha i ffool
potent source
of tracing memones,
1magmable
hould
of rhis Ammos
/ reach more d1fflcult levels of
achievement, of bringing those memories
is a powerful tool	me mform:iruon
belief chat the Mnem	ce·mc a	ot.pulling anychmg ,ave the ahsolutc v, ., ,-		'
truth from the psyches of th<_ls. ,th y,Jvpr •,\\ r..\i:_h1 , unfortunately, was nm the
case.
An early synthesis of the  . f P pperry anJ'Ca,tigate, Mnemosplis also fo•
cu,ed on the concrol of others. Mn.,;\ii1;i"iare work	with the stuff of remembrance and the parrems of thought, and only  he mQ.,t skilleJ have the ability to shape It,
rather than merely	1t. However, chose with che talents to perceive
lllemory as physical stuff may shape it w d'ieir
or!:tearing memories. Tho c watching theMnemoi Jo not see this rc,,haping of the
Oblivion
mnrerial of memory ab anything beyond the usual visual effects associated with the Arcanos.	1 A"
TeGuild
Once closely affiliated with the Pardone'rs:/he Mnemo1 served the judiciary of Stygia as questtoners and sleuths. Quesrinns·of n-,uth and falsehood, respons1btlity and fault were easily answered as the Mncmoi could call up memories of incidents in question and simply know no,t only the' whats, but also rhe wherefores. The honesty of theirGuild was unqueHioned, in part hecause,of the rigorousness ofMnemoi train­ ing was widely noised about and in pan because were the Mnemoi corruptible, it would be too disturbing ro contemplate. Ne'&llcss tu sa \'the Mnemo1 were in fact

corrupt.	j	'
Not all betrayed their trus . certainly, hut rhe elders'9f the Guild sold their talents ro the highest b(ddcr. When their schemes were·unma&ked by Charon, the Guild was broken and 'frsfollowers eirher crushed or scarr ;d. Itsmembers, despi,ed and occasionally hunted, were exiled to rhe .hinterlands, and it isrhere, in a thou­ sand places far from the capital of the dead, that the ways of rea<li g and shaplng memories are.still taught.	\.
The Guild'ssymbol before the exile was an evenly balanced scale weighing one eye in each pan, but since the breaking of the Mnem01, those who most keenly feel
the Guild's.-disgrace have recast it so that the scales are no longer balanced. Mnemoi are noLable for never, ever blinking (save by consc1ow. effort), and Ir is hy'this and only this that they may he detected,/, 	I II /
innateA ilities
Rewind: With a minunutn of effort, a Mnemos is capab[lhf seein che last minute of nother being's existence through that being's eyes. Humans, ·spectre,, even animals are affected by th1s power. The clock is constantly tickiniron thisabil, ity and the time limit is precise, but nothing can be omitwd or glos. ed over when Rewind is employed. The Mnemos u,ing Rewind sees, instead of the world around her, the last m1nuce of her t.argec's experience int.he first-person format. The Rewind srans from the moment precisely one mhwre before the Arcsinos is employed. At rhe end of that minute, realiry reasserts itself.
By entering a Mental Challenge against her targec, the.Mnemos activates Re• wind and is able to seo the world through her subject'$ eyes..The subject musr relace the last mmute of her e istence to the Mnemos character; omitting nothing. If the
Mnemos loses rhe challenge, the mrgetcan either refus tQ speak or give false infor- mation.	•
In Memoriam: ln Memoriam brint:s back J'cr'Jciffsmemoryso that the Mnem(ll, can experience 1t herself. The.memory in questton iusr be specified precisely (i.e., "Let mesee your memoryof the last time ou spoke with to your friend Aristophanes," or "Show me what happened justafrer sundown lasr'Thu!llday"),and must refer to an
event that rhe questioner knows•1'1Ccurre,l. "Shbw me whar happened when you dumped Chretien into the Nihil," is n t a·valid(Juesrion, unless the Mnemos knows
chat her target did in fact dump someone na eJ Chretien into a Nihil. The memory is presented in the same manner as one.reci1UeJ through Rewind.
( apterfour:(l1amcteristics
To recall a particular memory, the Mm,mos phrases her request for che specific roeimll)' and rhen enters an Excemled M ntal Challenge against the target. Every 5Llccess determines the clarity of the imag This power 1s only good for the lase year; each a<ldinonal five years of range r.,:4u'trcs th i;xpendirure of a Willpower Trait.
Basic
Mnemotechnici.: Mnemorechnks bring, a mumenr of the past back for rhe wr.iith upon whom it is exercised. Wht.'. this .,rr 1, used, the target 1s msranraneously rransporrecl (in her mind) b;is t,I a time specified by rhc Mnemos responsible. The  character will perceive herself-to be in rhar paanimc and will act accordingly. This powercan either be a magnifi el;!rdease qr rhecruebt o(inflicted delusions, and i1 is used sparingly by thO!'c who are aw.m: lit its comequcnces:

A Extended Soc1.il Challenge against rhe sub1ccr dcrcrmlhcs whether this power functions. In addition, !f thl' imcm of the Mn..mos utili:lng M em<:>technics is to heal painful memones, the number of bUCccs.'<-,.indicatL':i the numl?er of Angst pointsdrained from the target'sShadow (half l,f this numh!r i added to the lnemos:I§ Pathos). Con­
versely, a malevolt!tlr lJSC of this power :idJs a number of Ang:,t pqinrs c('Jual ro half the number of successes. In either .:aS<!, thr.: Juration of the ddusio.n i, ,lctermined by the
numberofsucc won as wdl; one minute fm eachone. UsirigMocm,1t<X:hicsrt."'CjUJres the r.:xpendirure of a Pathos and a Willpower Tr:ut.ln additton, ch) Mncmos aucoman­ call.-gaim an Angst point if the power is u >d malevolently. 1C
Mindspeak: Tlus art allows the ,vra1th to communicate short phr:isei. to an individual, and to receive his responses-: Like a kind "f lim1tl..J telepathy, thi art may only,)e,usl'd to commumc11e with someone within the user's line.of sight. Because the t ghts are being conveyed by a means that is beyond language, it is Jitlk.ult m expr s.f! e shadesof meaning through thi ari. On rhcother hand, it is fX1bsible to
communi'c\t<.: with :,omeone whospcaki. an unfamili.ir language, due to che nonver• bal nature of Mindspcak.
The WT\lith must enter a Static Mental Challenge. Each succb..t/alr iows her to
communicate ,,ne simple phrase, and receive a response. For each additional person the Mnemos wishes co communicate with beyond the first, one point of Pathos must be expended.
terrne iate
Casting the Scene: Casting the Scene recallsa 1T1omcnr ·,,f the target' pai,t for everyone within a 10' radius. An expense of additional Parh,,s expands the range of those included in the eff'ect. The request for a memory must be carefully phraseJ; queries in the "If you didn't b ry him tn the basement, where did you bury him?" mold will produce precisely zero in Lhe way of effect. Everyone in the range expen• ences the memory through the eye$ of the target of rhe Arcanos.
For a cost of rwo Pathos and one Will!)(lwer Trait, Casting the Scene can he invok . Thewraith acqUJresone'Ternporary Angst point forevery minute of memory replayed by this power. To use Cast the Scene, the Mnemos makes a Static Social Challenge. The power is only good fqr events that occurred during the past year; each additional five yean, of range ra1uires,t c expenditure of an additional Will­ power Trait.
-,	,r-:,	:J
olivion
Advanced
Onslaught: This is the ultimar fa{\t of the Mm:mt,1, •he ability tll amplify an<l rramfor a memory wholly frnm o e 11e m an<1ther. While this may nm seem
a foarsome power, a comrr scd a	,1nren	mori,mal experience can m some
Id	h.r.	 -.
cases cau,e acru.a  amage to r e r .,C:_!"icnt-, n fcCNm t e memory Is beinl! trans.
ferred from will mil recall wha#-c· morp:'on emt-<l, bur will become more de­
t:lched from the cxrenenc,
1
Wh1 e t h1s arc wa, mma y, eve opt.>u t , 1ea pa.in u memoncs, It  as lic n

adapted w
· , 1,-	-, ,	f.  '\
mfl1ct uch mtenst cmouoo:i,! in  th	c·body actually hegins to'--.
.  (	- r .., •	♦ /' I	I	•	L'C
cpme physically weakened'by the Onsl;iu11l1t. lt ,nhe aoti e of chi. rower chat forced
I r'	.._	•1 •	'  ,  E..,,
Charon co break rhe Mncmoi,	nslaugh1 i,  wcJ e  n	this day.
t	Ii,'  1-.	,,  \...... ,. • \. ..
The wraith ane"Jr n7	. i. l_l)1p\c-;(1; t lake'I: ';contact with the ub- jec1, and muse Emho1y)f!h 1n/ Jld1:d r-,1r isin,tl\e S,liinlan_d and ha  no meaiisof
,ecmg beyond the Shroud 'Th·c.,N.mator a,s1gn/a number fn?rn •me to 10, indicating theintensity of tht' memo!)I'' -bi-ing transferred•. TI·\c MneInLi/o.,s;,m7:'1y mcrea,c the inten-
sity by ,pending W1llpow r Trni1, on a one-for-c,; al\ bur.m.  not hnng the in­ tensity level abrwe a maiclJumf>l·.Jo.The'·subjeci:-an'd..rhi'i1oemi:ie(rhcn e ccr m10
r•(	-	•'·J•r	....... -L,l	'\ •	,.,
aEnxtended Static Memal Challenge, counring tn,msuccesscs unu\ )th have lu,t,
.	I.	. i·	•:c l	Y	,	\ ;
w1rh a ne counting m, a los, fnr rh .'jllbJcctand a t e i:o tmg as_a Wl.!\_for the Mnemo-.
Th e one	JuI1,mu-n.• ccesS ,i fl1'.c1sch cir num.,.-,;eI.r o .suc•.cesses'I•ll Corr..\u( or II calhc ,
•..  "  ,:;,_ I	'" •. .	,,.Y .  l f\  (L \ • J'	Ir	...'," •
in the	f, bei g i 1e, nlamb) Lcy_eb.as J, l_!l )o,r.nlt?ser·: l:.!iing chis art will cause·1he Mnemos w g 1:n four Ang,t.
The.,ll lstufN.ltwmtrl'G( llrd plasm, is .1 f-onr ior,e
flc., . Mc,:i1i •t ,•sp n_ctl!Jlesq.•1cd wuI 5h aping, 1sht t'.P9	tI
ing chat pla,m:
••	\	-..,  j......,. h.,.. ,•. · ... -
Wrnirhs who kM\G"the. l!Cl'Cb of
)m canma}(cS:pla m 1-eaJuful. cause
s 1mmer or g1ow,' anl,ld even ma-k·e 1. tI oo k-vmrant ya 11ve. Tl1e can aI,,!:,oscu pt	mto
any homncd1s,19!1rcmemt'1mag:m· able. W'"'/1· 1hthe pc d uur,·"1·p'lth'o .Mn 1arc mm
rlasm evcr-:,o-bnJtl{fl t,I.JIIS[ long n911gh for a r;iiem<.'ll shaper to create a vil,1on of
'",.1	;Ir-,  •,•., - •- -	-	',
beauty or a thing out of a n1Rhtm:1re:
The more c m;lii'atcdche cffoct£ugh \\·ith Mohat .i:h' loni:er ir mke .Sim·
ply rippi i,: off a chun t•\n 01;,.r,9rrc' r• plasm or <lra In i(c'lcn,h d fisc into dub 1s n<.'arly mslancancous, ·hile reshapm,C? a wra1th1mo a finely worked scat cu,;h1on or
rewor mg t e arpearancc 9t,enc s enti:re C' orpus c11 _r'1a,r!.c minutes, even hour .
l eGuil
'	\	-.,	,	Ir
The Masquer..' Guild, back in the!l\·go·ne  ys1was
anJ hcauuficacion. The Masqu r?Jevotc<l·'.oiuch,c,f their rime fulfilling chr hea,·y
\ '·	.	'  ,,
;1l1 cn1,,yed1n,lofty rn icion among the Guilds.
idcal lf,image or drawing terrible wear·
her
create true art while they were ar 1r
(!1apterfour:Caracteristics
0(  cou e. 1hc ma.seers of foliate weR'. nlso warrior,, spies and a,,as,,m, of the
highesc caliber. When
COUP• chi:other wniith
withdraw from chi:Guilds' anempceJ ron!?er. While pr:tCllcally every Cita­
del has 8 former Masquer on che payroll. n,\\\--raith ralcnteJ ar loltace i warcheJ

ver,·carefully the,e Jay .
Ma,;qucrs are exceptionally	tolhe,r'ilr:_c,an<l have a near-obse.-,sion with
perfection. ln addltlon, Chl!ir --Y;t''.ra :u _ex,rre lC r\maIIC"dble, an ,d Ma ucr,, 0ften appear co be iusr ,1 bit too pe f _t( l1>19.naJJy,:._nv9 or more Ma,;quers who work well together adopt prec1s,
innateA ilities
'l  - ..Y J	\L  ,	\
Glow: The wraith an use·thl J!lrl ro c11u,c hen,elt or another to glow with an
innerlight of whatevqc laf od1tii't nsuv•,	'·	'·	-  '
The wraith ente)rI: an•l:HxrIeintuied :;ratic· xii11"ch\dii1i':nge.·o.od cxpen , oneP a-
rhos. The number &
l•IJ	'.f ,• I
/'r",-
t ucces.sC$ md1..;;ucs how many,}cenl's•the g ow lases. The glow
i  •	•	'.\ "	'
can be uo;ed co 1j u1fari(i.'n\if ar a 'l) \..help ,,omeon-: , eC'\:e ' a '.3c,1n in the
Tempest. Wra1tn$·w1th 61ur,: should pkk up a G1liw1card from rhe Storyteller at
r	, ,,.-,	l	'
the begmnmg iif the game, and hol<l 11 up w
..,..	,.._
l -
Retum" 'toD eath's V,isage: Tl1' 1s ab·I1i·cy\·cunn	h•\ wrauhs:.,utm.\ack	er
,	.  f I
1.1.	.	l Ii '°"-..	1,.V..-..,- .. ,,..- \ "L
1rigmal m	;m ,!l!l ht, 1preat , she J1J,..\lo1.'. en he:; Caul wru.,• tirst m?ved
I l'-	f'	.
The,. ich ma
/,.	11	t	,	,\.\
_$tati<:,.§o<:,al Chalte'le1ar s
s aPacho,
point. T¥ number of,succcs.'<ei
originai 5hapc.
1ccur:itclr _ilie r.mh a umc, her
I /'·	If,. ·. //' •  ,,.,
- '-.	'-. •
\•. •	• r'	;,
Shapesenst': tn{ e·1v1	lrni'e c:in Jetect;whctRer or'pqr hnothc,1r vraith
,	(
has been Moliatd; and
...-,r.�·
inJwnar manner.
' \ .	r	.	-	.	-..._- ... .., --v ,,.	r
If a ,i.wpc . t er otbeing MohaceJ, h:·'\ c_er an _E ! -?J. M_cmal Challenge with rhe,cargct. Thenurnher of succ csJct 'rmmes rh ·amoum of infor­ mation he ,il s;elt_ncr ft6nt:al¢'<1k.Qt the chJrilct 's'A· aril'ii cird or from the player simply'ti
Basic
Sculpt Th-P,i:a1th mny useth1fp"rt- change3\\ lh'si#'e'co mimicanother\, or •m oJr er to aI tcr tue, ()rp' ush owever..sne·c 1oose .I n t tm$ o copying :mm er s
face, It b
io•,1,/	,<	-..,..	fl
easier wh n cH-e\':ra1th is '9olimg ac the f'ac. .t	f/PieJ rhan rowork from
memory. If the wraith &l1; d ro'1ter herC'.orpus, she·n y,den)e newappenda)?e,,
shape Jagged tecch, gro..ruhfscmory organs,"·,lorn her,clf wirh marking, or par-
,...	,"/r
te s, orcause pam of her y  to glow or shift coJ< c only wea nry chat the
wraith can create ure enhanceu,t,eeth for hntng;--  crw,sc the wraith rcrams her
. . I	\ 'I,	,,,,.,
ongma physical capabilities regardlll}, ofhcr.pum1]e 'ot appendages. Accively lbing
new aprendages requires Martt ln,. A.ny chnngc [n_; wraith's ap{'l':irnnce hould be noted on her Appearanct c.3rd.
The Masquer
tended Static Social Challenge ag i,\st'.(nuit\her of successes the Narrawr deem5 appropriate. Any Sculpting effects ar} rm/!1 nt (until negaceJ hy another Sculpc• rng). This an cannot cause dama c. onJr,aJtcr ,hape. Tim art co,ts one Pathos to
use, and the sub1cct losesa Corpus Level if fhe process involves anything more corn. plicated than simply cosmetic alterations. '

Sculpt can also be used co heal .agg	ared damage; a wraith using Sculpt can
,_
replace lost Corpus Levels by reworking, tl:i'e wounds. The healer must obtain one
success for each level of aggravated Jamage.to be healed; tlus use of Sculpt coseas Willpower Trait and a Pathos, plus one cxiraPathos per s1.1ccess.
Martialry: This art permits the wraith to',sh.ape her limbs into weapons or form her skin intoarmor, Any weapt>ns created are automatically usable by one who knows how (i.e., has at least one Melee;Trait), but armor tends to be stiff and inflex­
ible.111e wraith simply molds the chosen Wnb lnm the desired weapon, hardening it
,c•'
asshegoes. By the same,token, the wm11h trying tb mak armor works her Corpus
intoa formidable carapace witha mirrorlike\heen. Many Masquers deliberately make their bodily arsenal as or'nace'and pcrsonali£1ld il.5possible.
To create weaponry, the wraith muse aiake an Extended Static Physical Chal­ lenge and expend rhrce Pathos. Each·wccess allows rhe, weapon to inflict an addi­
tional level of damage-in hand-co-hand combat. The shape o(the weapon matters little, although many wraiths prefer swords for easeof use.
To sculpt armor, the wraith must make al\ Extended S'tatic Physical Challenge and expend rhtee Pathos. Eaah succe"s adds the eq\livalent of a Temporary Corpus Trait for purpqses of damage,only; the false Corpus created by- this ,art must be de­
stroyed before th 1traith cakes any real damage to.her f6rm.
Weapons and armor c.1nnot be created -ar the same time; Martialry must be used twice tu create'both effects. Girding others for war is hne of the lost arr$oi the now­ banished Guild'.
intermediate
Reod: M terti 'of chis,arr can tear apart I he Corpora of other \\Taiths. The wraith llbtni,: Rend must firsr: ,;t hertarget, generally by making a successful attack-relatedchalleng :'iQ:iiaggressor then makes an Extended Physical Challenge against her target,. Each success inflicts one point of al(gra,,ated damage, plus one point per extra point-of Path0s spent. Five or rnon· succeS!;es permits the wraith to tear off a portion of her ,,pponent (e.g., face, hand, k:nt."e or Ju t :i. random handful of plasm). Using Rend cost, <me point of Parhos to activate, plus whatever the player
spends to get extra poitso'£Jamage inflicted upon her victim. Each use of Rend also
riains the character o •point ofTernp.>rary An,;,t.
Advanced
Bodyshape: The character with this art maytransform his or another's Cor• pus mto practically anything imagin,,a.ble, from ll supermodel to a bookcase or a chunk of modern sculpture. It is dangerous to ,a-etch ,me's plasm too thin; the relative
volume of the final form should he roughly equal to the wraith's normal volume.
The wraith ence anExtendedScauc Mental Challenge with the number of sue• cesses needed depending upon the final furm (at the Narrator's decision). Takingon the form of an oily puddle would only req ir "ne success, while numicking a Hierarchv Anacreon in full regalia 1s much harder, requiring four successe:.. The wraith can only mamtam a full-body change for a limited time (five minutes per success) before hisCor•

(l1arter four:(!1a1acteristics
pusreverts ro nonnal. Thisan costs four Path, s. If1t 1s used against an unwilling wraith, the wraith using Bodyshape gains twoTempc>rary Ang:;c points.
The	secrets of permanentIy Mo11.atImJgf,)a wra1thmto an mammate ,orm are on y
known ro a few, and player characters 1 .l_it'not have access to them.
Outrage
There are several ways to affect the living world•from the Shadowlands. Out• rage is rhe Arcanos that manifests a wraith'sstrength {will as a kinetic force. Its arts are all physical or v1olenc in some,forll! <:'! jlnother, a$an
FieGuild	.,, .	•.
The Spooks Guild was almost.not a Guild at all; it, members were such frac­
tious troublemakers rh.at rher l{ h:lifficulry relating t'\'cn to e:lth other. Their lack of internal structure hamperl'd their ability to deal Wilh other''Guilds, and they en­ joyed only moderate,deman<lfor rhe1r arrs. Only the Amficcr, found constant em­ ployment for the Srooks, ,.mlimng them (n the creation of relic".
Consequently, rhe Spooks weren't hir that hard by rhe dishandmg qf rhe Guilds. Theydrifted back into their us11al activities with littledifficulry, and ex-yu1ld mem­
bers can still 1?c found scanmg fight,s and fires 111 the  roui:;hcsr par!$ of chie,;.1l1ey
enjoy brandishing hhmt weapqns.such as maces, .ind ofrl'n spend time in the com­ pany of their fellow miscreant ; the Hau[\ters. The typical Spook has nddly knotted, powerful muscle gro_up -!ir,d a·somewhat misshapen look.
innate Abilities
Leap of Rage: By1f
\g!his emotion and will it he Sha	l nds, the
wraith become.s·capable of e
dmaryl&psand Jumps.
i''	,ti
The wraith epters an'ExtendeJ Static.Physical'Challenge which h;
anysuccesses he Would no' ally. ore when making a lCl'lp6r  jump. Thisart can also
be used to change direction i.n the Tempest.
Ping: This Innate Ability allows the wraith tolmanipularc the smallest ob-
•	I	• \
jects in the material world. The wratth may
move
the
bottle cap, and these1usr asmalldistance iriany directiori:Th1s tends co be useful for attracting the living's attention or prcssin all buttons.
The wraith makes a Srattc Physical to use this an.
Basic
s	d s one point o Pat os
Wraithgrasp: This an permits the	co affect the Skmlands more fully.
Wra1thgrasp may only be used to  lift i.qiall things, although a powerful wraith may
lift sizable objeccs fair height before
them at his leisure). The ob1ect can be lifted to a releases i.t.
The  wraith enters an Extended Static Physical Challenge. The number of suc•
cesses indicates	may only be hfted, not pushed around,
manipulateJ or moved in any other way.Theuseof thisarr cosesone point of Pathos.
125
,·..
;1·1·
■,
,.,.....cl::.---:;.,...	--
olivion	 (
The wraith using lhis art must physically lift the item (or card for the item) being affected by this power, demonstratifig' what precisely 1s being done with 1r.
Stonehand Punch: The wraith s nunons his anger and lashes out across the Shroud, striking his target with raw for k This art can also be used on objects in the Underworld, including other wraiths.
Each succe.-son an  Extended Physical Cha.Hence inflicts one Health Level (or Cor­ pus Level, if the target is a wraith) on the subiecr. Thi, artcoses two Pathos per strike.

intermeaiate
Death's Touch:The wraith ypow manipulate pbjects in the physical world. This art pennits cypmg, opening w1ncl ws and so on, ju$Lll$ if the wraith was solid. The wraith may altem ieJy c se tocreatesome triction, starting fires without any sort of material source b(flame.
The wraith enter/an Exr °dt!d'Sti,mc Physical Challenge and expends three Pathos. The wraith's_delicacy and control derends upon the number of successes rolled. The power lasts up to one minute per succes,.
Tostart a fire, the wraith alsoexpen<ls three Path& pomrsand enter& into an Extended Static Physical Challenge.The number ofsuccesses indicat rhc hear anJ extentof thefire. The wraith u,ing Dearh'.s Touch must narr te the events that she causes to hap­
pen by usu1g rhis power, acting [hem out whever pl)Ssible. Obviously, mortals will
not see the wraith, only the effects of her !)('We .	'\"\
Aavancea
• -r
ff	I
#'  '
Obliviate:1This,h1deous arr allows'a wraith codamage.someone or something so severe!\• that H  l  besent to Obliv1on. Material object:; thus de uo.yed vanish into Oblivion, unless Inhabited bv·a wraith (in which case they become relics). Us• ing thisan on'obj;m Or relic.:; in the Shadowlands sendschemdirecdy il)to Oblivion. This can also destroy wi;atths and mortals, forcing their ouls intci Qblfvion.
The Spook enters ru, E end Sratlc Phy ical Ci)allenie, lf trying to affectanother wraith, the target may make.the challenge an Extended Physical Challenge instead. Each succ inflicts one levelofoggmva[ed, nonsoakable damage. Living criaruressuffer Health Levelsofdamage, buttheirs,:;i1lsfall intoa truction Harrowing it theyareslain.Wraiths
reduced to zeroCorp tluou h thisarr also immed1arely fall intoDestruction Harrowm .
This art costs three PathOt>, and.al.so the wr ..,,h gains three Temporary Angst points.
As staving off Oblivion is the Hierar hy fe\\SOO for existence, sendinga soul co the Void is frowned upon by me a thoriries. A y',wraith known co have used Obliviate on another soul will be wanted for questionmg at the,very least. In addition, other wraiths are likely to skinish around someonewhij_tan send them to rhe Void with a (relative) minimum of effort.
pandemonium
\  I	I
Pandemonium 1s the abil1ry to·rnp /n.r:9chaos itself, releasing the strange and eldmch upon the living world. Ocher wraiths tend to avoid masters of Pandemo• nium, as their distorung effects of the Wyl<ling (as the Arcanos is also known) can be derrimental to one's sanity.
126
Cna ter four:Cnaracteristics
Mortals generally won't 1'elieve most of the flagrant effect:; of chi;; Arcano•.
Sud.ten m1:;ts, blood seeping under do
of Clmrrol tend to send most peo
;warms of spider:;, and clocb running our t5l,a state of panic or disbelief. Even video
recording• of some of these effeccs will,guesu9ned; ,·ideotapes are becoming easier to modify....
eGuild
Back m the umesof the Ouilds,''ci'nly"the Spooks would regularly associate with rhe Haunters. The 1.wo Guildscooperated to clear mortal intruder:; away from build­
ing thcy were hired to "clean." How.:vcr, no other GuHd would gladly mingle with the misanthropic, half-cra:cJ Haunter:;. Their hamell,S·of.the Wylding seemed to
bend rheir mind:; as much as it distorted reality, and noboJy could be sure that the Haunrers were full)' in control of thcmsc.:lves1,or their powers.These days,Spooksand Haunters are nearly ln:;cparablc, anJ other 1>. aiths are quire happy to  leave them to  each ocher.

Haunters are recogmz:ibly quirky, adopttng all manner of culiar mannensms (inappropriate gigf,!ling, affected speech. starmg just a bit too inten _ly at your leftear, andso on). Many ha,·e adopred hillowmg hlack clo.ib asason of badge of honor or the-,mical device.
innate Abilities
Sense Chao,: The wraith' arrunement co chaos and the Shadow allQws her  to deteer if:som·ethmg ha:; been manipulated by Pandemonium or a Shadow This is also he'lpful for d recrmg 1f a morral has been rampcred with by Spectres.•
THe'wra\th makes a Suuc Mental Challenge to ,.:e if she  notice, anvching out
of the ordinary.	'
Basic
Weirdness: Thewraith may mvoke some small strangeeffect'on a smgle tar• get. The object.of this art may feel suddenly col<l, or his hack\e_q rise, or he might suffer a momenrary hallucination. If 1he wraith really concentrates upon his target, the object may become disoriented and temporarily forget whu he is and what he's doing.
In order to cause 1 ;mall physical effectupon a target, the wraith makes a Social Challenge and spends one Pathos. In order to cause a mental effect upon a target, the wraith musr make an Extended Menll!l Challenge against the v1ct1m with every 5\JCcess causing the effect.'! to  last up to five minutes per success. This art works as
well on wraiths as 1t does on mortals.
As with Outrage, rhe Haunrer must detail and, if possible, roleplay the effects she is attempting to create. Thost> inJhc SkinlanJs react only to  the effects; ocher
Wl'aiths can react to the wraith as eifif they nonce her (by wmnmg a Static Meneal Challenge) in the confusion. • ., ,.
Dark Ether: The wraith y  tampt>r ,f•ith the weather or light conditions m
a small area. She may radically change the te perature, summon misc and darkne:;s, lllodify the humidity, or even evoke a glo,,:·akin to St. Elmo's Fire.
··Olivion
The	player Jccl.,res the effocc ,h.e w,an.r.s, and cntc anFx1cnJ_ed Stati
Challe.nge. The nu.mhcr of succc"es dr'.'.!,<\
angc:
in cm·tronment. Five ,ucce,;s calls up e_nqul!h turh_ul_cn_ce {1f desired) to inflict on
Hea_lth or Com1_1s Levd ofd_amagc on
' • 't'  •
C
ic1111ry.Thi,i, rare; most Haunt
.,	J , beml?Xl·i'i"n_th·•e v
Cl}
to use rim art to rcrnfy rather rhan tnJ1 '	his art cosr, rwo Pathm coinvok
intermediate
Ir	it.,giv\ es
por·
.r,
Foul Humour: Th 1. 1h may chann I fe..ting noxiou,substanc ,?1,warms ,lf smallt
I l ·.1=,
, .m._n.,;.
or
"-"-'-","-',tl'o{r n ...rs r,f snakei;, r'i1r, or 5'1'1d.er:;'_·.·•H"e-,\can alternate!," proJ..•...-.
raw fle
(l(_-.d, muck, rcn-.onably strong,	r	er foul mattt.'r.
·1	•· • • ··, \ :\
mi:
player must- tatc whm he is rrymg for and enrer an Extended Static Phy11.
I le fp1/nds onc point. of Path nnd nnc Witlpriw r Trait, while "'ain•
!	\  \	·
Angst. The  number of ,ucce» e:, Jcterminl'S the e;reru
·
succc"c from the Extended Challenge:  -	'
Advanced
(TempusFugit: The wraith un di tort di
nil timeitself. Bv'us T1:m
F 1,1	d slow"or hasrcn the r  aie	imc:or;-;-;akc the l;•n rh

l
'	,.-.	H	,_,•• l	.  ·,
orn ea	,5 r
'	.
or repeat um .	.'
his	and mak an,Extcnded Stauc Mental Chai•
lcnl!C immcdiJte
'1\u;.hcr ohuci;c:;ses <llt ·rmme:·.1e:3roqunr of change rei ittcd 111 h1, '	'	•	• " L	·'
, \
.'	.	-'	" •	-.,-  ••
c ,9!1crs'rhe fl<iw of rune hy l\ u rwo mmmi.: - F9 example, if 1hr
wraith
tnf cc.sfi'cce,se , he co11ld
'.  J'	;
requiring
inro vcn oreil!lk minute,	C 1n	ur
ini:.six tum5, letc·i 1g i'c • finished in'ihr e. This an can t  'att ptl.-d once every 10
minut_cs or o. {Note:_ifhis does nor add; thenumber	c,dc ns a target ger, from
-	''. ,	I - ;r
Cclem or Rage; tt c1m only uhrract them.) Ternp ,;lf,ugn abo works m the ShaJowl.mck Thisarr, ,rs three Parhos and 1/ m; 'Trait.Itisrecmnmerxkd char a Narrator he presc t when thi,art,is J
pnantasm
o'f.l,i.r,i::\,,m_ s. ho:,e ,:ith	a
,lecp1111: mortal\ soul our of i tlcsli,-u,il_hring 1tla	'
"	,.,
t:,, J''
Thsleeper will remember r_hev _s he1.m1, l'J 111 as a vague drc,tm, if acall, hut on
1
a	arcreal 111det!,tJ :\'r· .	.	. ,
1·
dream om inspirc or frighten a per.on tliq"'dh nging
airer elements of the dream to his tJMcs\h i'.ruc1ing or horrifying his audience.
l••i
Dreamers brought into the Shadowbinds are created as wraiths with particularly
,.,lid form - They may only be damaged h) special Artifacts or attacks that inflict '.;,.ra"aced damage on wraiths. Attacked dreamers shp instancly back into their bod­
-  almost always wakmg up unharmed. Only the mightiest wraiths can permanently
.iarnage or kill monals in their dreams.
Note: The arcsof Phantasm can be used to·bcneficial or malefic effect, and this
haas
direct effect on the price nf using rhe Arcanos. With the exception of Agon,
lllY Phantasm art that is used to harm another's soul also grants the user a point of Temror,ur Angst. The same art can be used for healing and entertainment without living rhe Sandman m quesrton Temporarv Angst; wha determmes the cost is the 5iindman's intent. Any discrepancies should he resolved by a Narrator.
I.'._
'flteGuil
The Sandmen• Guild was once a glorious place to_ o k. Charged wirh arttsttc fervor and a love for rhe dramatic, the Sandmen sculpt d tages of dreamsruff and performed great works in the theatres of sleep. Deathlords and Anacreons bartered i:,r their services, aod the arcs of Phantasm granted considernble prestige.
Whcri rhe'Guilds were broken, the Sandmen'did their level best ro carry on the
f I	_...,
show. Phantasm was mbre than a Job to them, it was a'labor 0f love. Even today, wand ring,.r1/ipcs of Sandmen bring their sho_ws to Nccropoli ac(9$s the world, re­ counnng (llles and rumors because they low nothmg better. Sandmen clothe them•
selves i1/ amer, afaintly incandescent material borrowed from dreams. They are
alsodiainguis ble by their often over-dr"dmatic mannerTums and bearing.
innat}Abilities
Sleepsense:The wraith may watcha mortal's dreams,or tell where he 1salong hissleep cycle (C'lt REM sleep, deepsleep and transition). Thisability worb equally well with sJ matural crearures as well.

The pla•y. 1er ak"" esa Static Mental Challenge in orJer to be able to watch the target's drea'rorabout five minutes at a time. If the dream is anything pertinent,
thedetails of the.dream should be relayed co the Sandman, If the target is feigning
1leep. the Sandman 1,:ill know instantly.
Basic
Elysia: The wraith may either cake hold of a sleeper's soul, pulling it free without hannmg it, or may alter the derails of a sleeper\ dream. If the wrairh pulls the soul free, the wraith may carry.it with her $he likes. If the wraith alters his
target's dreams, he can change any number of factors in the dream. If he changes
enough derails, he can 1w1st a pleasant dream intoa n:lghtmare or vice versa.
To cake a dreamer's soul frnm hts body; the wraith enters an Extended Scanc Physical Challenge and spends one pointof Patho:r. Every success allows the sub1ecr to remam m the dreamscape for five minutes. I)imng that ume the dreamer can see, spealc and otherwise mteract wich all of the denizens of the Underworld.
To manipulate the sleeper's dreams·, che wraith enters an Extended Static Social Cballenge am]expends two pointsof Patho, inorder co manipulate hts target's dreams. Each succe,:; nlake; every change more vi\•id and lasting.
129
Dreams of Sleep: The \vra1th ma make mortals, supernatural beings or other wraiths fall asleep and dream. For wraitns, rhe dreams are as v1\•id as tho:;e of life
The Sandman need not enter a _c 1 lJenge if the subject 1s willing. If he is n­ wLLling, the player enters a Social <;:9al.1enge against her target. This an coses one pomt of Pathos when used on ocher wraiths, two poincs for mortals, and three JlOinis of  Pathos when usedon supernatural beings. If the .art is used on supernatural being , they will inscandy be aware of wh.it isgoingqn (thev will know chat it isa supernaiu­ ral anack; they may or may nQt recognize the source) and may react accordingly.
interme iate
,
Phantasmagoria:The wraith may weave Pacho, i1:uo illusions. Phantasmago-
ria affects all fivesense , but d1e duration i, limited. These illusions are only solid to ocher wraiths if she invests Corpus mro t <:%:!hf e,Js Embodied, she can craft thc,e illusions in the material world.
The player enters an Extended Static St>e1 I Challenge and spends rwo pomis of  Pathos. The nvmber of 1.1ccesses CQU3ls how difficult 1r is to rhrough the illu­ sion, as well as its duration. Thc-.wraith must invei;c one Cbrpus Level to make the illusion quasi-material (and dangerous). The illusion oan cake as many Corpus Lev­ els of damage bdorc being destroyed as the wraith i, willing to mwst. A wraith may not "heal" a damaged illusion; he must craft anotherone. If rhe illu 1on t, potentially damaging, the player may make a Physical Challenge to artacl.:·a victim. Each suc­ cess inflicts one Level of damage. Phantasmagoria cost duce Pathos ro  ctiva1e, plus one P:11hos for every 10 minutes for which the illus16n is maintained.  .

Advanced
Agon: Thi vraith may directly rip a dreamer's soul fmm her sleeping body.
This 1s cxcruciaci -gly'painful and Qften debilitating to the dreamer.  •
The player enters an Extended Physical Challenge against the vtcrim. The num­ ber of successc 'mdicates how long the wraith may holds the dreamer's soul, each success equalin fn'c1mlnutes. The dreamer also loses an equal number of Health
Levels upon awak ning. She may resist the wraith through the Extended Physical
Challenge, which can turn this art's use into a rruestruggle. Agon'costs three Pathos pomts to use, and grants the wraith's Shadow two Temporary Angst pomts. Souls ripped from bodies by use of Agon also enter the Shadowlands as dreamers (unlc;s the  art's effects are facal\, but are usually in the position of Thralls.
puppetry
Of all the 13 Greater Arcanoi, Puppetry 1s the.one that Charon forbade mo,1 seemly. Only the Deathlords and their Hierarchy were sanctioned to  ride the mor· cals, to possess chem and thus affect thtm direcdy, Bue like all forbidden fruits, Pup
perry has 1rs devotees, those willing to nsk   archy sanction for another rnsce of
rhe Skinlands.	'' 	.J/ •
Wraiths riding a subject are nont'nilr pan of the Shadowlands, and a, such are immune to the normal dangers of that\;i;ce:,i fowever, they take the damage as their hosts do. Also, the host's Physical Traics ani non-Meneal Abilities rake precedence
130
the wraith's unless the wraith is in  it!!Ct control. The Puppeteer is a backseat
driver,.ind usually nothm more.
Most aspects of Puppetry require. t)'i.e..:_'vraith to attune himself to a Consort by
,-,pending Willpower Trairs while Skmric_!_ing. The wraith may cry these arts (at the
Narrator's discretion).
fhGeuild
The Puppeteer'sGuild wasneveran,_official p-artofSrygi,msociety.Though even Charon
Ule(!their service:; on  occasion, he tole red their presence in Stygia because of their aJf11ia­ dlln with the other Guilds and no_t for any intrinsic merit they might pos. ss.Their partic1- parionin theattempted cour was the excuseSrygia had been waitingfor, and the Puppeteers wereamong those wraiths most flereely persecuted after d)eCoup'failure.Today, those Pup­ pcreers who pracuce their art must Josq well away from )' H,e rchy representative.
MoM Puppetee .feel a grear fundn ·(9r inonab, acting ptotecuvely toward
their wards. Man rry to avert warsamong the.li,ying al)d  ard their favorite Quick.
Of course, the occasional d seed feels quife the opP_Psire; mortal bodies, they are
lflllle, are the pcnect_r	entertainment,•	ripe to use• ,;mId .iquse.
Puppeteen; unconsciously exhibit btfange mannerisms ;ind ofcein.accenrs picked
upfrom assqrted mortal hosts durlngSkmri.Je...	•
innateAbilities
-t.,t P9Ssession: Th. e·wraifh may tellIf;n(){her wra1t.h I cu'rre tl\'Skinriding
the t	, pr-even if th . taq:et has been attuned for Puppetry.
'ffi pl.iyer makesa Static MenralChallenge to detcd:acurrenr p05sess'iim or to
perccivl e;indications o( Puppeteer manipulation on,afeCon<;Ort.
Basic
Skinride:Skmridmg is.the'most·b ian-of rxissession. It is cWe'capab11ity co
1111 '."  ,..	• ,
;lip into a mor\,\l's. body, thereby j9ining with him for a brief nd /:rne wraith can exert no control with this art, and the hose act> of hl, owri free will. However, any

inore :-ophiscicated Puppetry art requires the wraith first to Skinride the host.
In order to slip mtb a host's body, a wraith must ente.r a.n E.xrended Static Physi• calChallenge. Any success will allow the wnith co Skinri<le f   hose; the number of
successes decermmes how	the next Puppete.:r ro co(iie along will need to sup­
plant the first m that b<icly(.assuming she's still there)  """'
Wraith who are Skinriding ri_ierel)' stand a {lace behind che mortal (or other being) that they are Skinridi{lg. A Sk.inriding wni1th is not visible on either side of the Shroud (being literally "Inside" her host), but by the same token may not speak orotherwtSe communicate her presence except by using Arcanoi.
Master's Control: A wraith using this au  m;iy briefly override his host body's Inn, legor speech center.Subtle u e of thisart c;m make a host manipulate an obiect insome way without realumg ic. Using this an to cause speech results in a mange blend of the wraith's and host's voic!Jl'
To use this art in order to physicallv ITl,llnipulace the host, the wraith must enter
an Extended Physic3l Challenge against,the host and spend one Pathos point, with
onlion
the more successes giving the wraith 11\{)re control of her host. If the host active!, resists, the wraith gains one poinr ofTemrorary Angsr.	l
Note: Mose hoses will be caken b,ys1..1rpnse by Master's Control, and will not be able co resist actively. Those mortals with some knowledge of ghosts (at least one Occult Trait) or supernatural beiq,gs will be sufficiently aware of what's going on to attempt co resist if they wish.
To use this arc in order U' take conrrol of the hose's speech centers, the wraith spends one point of Pathos and enters into an Exrended Mental Challenge. Each success allows the wraith to speak as rhe host for one breath. The wraith alsogains one  point of Temporary Angst.
intermediate
Rein in the Mind: This an allows a wraith to po,se5 _someone withou1 the host's knowledge. In 11\0 cases, Glis can only be·done tq. a Consort. The hose re­ mainssemiconsciqus,though passive, through the art's effect,"i!nd will regam control when the Puppereer releases her. She will immediately try co rationalize her actions; failing, she ay  eek out therapy or mental health testing. Any {lain the host feels feeds back co rhe PIJppeteer as Corpus Jamage, however.
The playereatersan Extended Meneal Challenge agai c thetarget.The effeccs of the art last.for five minuc persuccess.  host may spend a Willpilwer Tratr co try to resist the -possession, enablmi fora retest:"&1ch success l>n the rete_sstubtract,
one fr6m the wraith's initial number cifsuccesses. If this numher i reduced,co zero, the Artanosfalls. Thisart costs three Pathosand be$cowsa point ofTemporary Angst.
Advanced
Obliterate the Soul: After cond1tioni'ng a Consort thiou h :xc hrive use of Rein in the Mind, the Puppe1eer may begin to live full-umJ {rnh1 -ch; hose's body. The host's personality is dev ured by th . r t J{\Shad J Whene:er the wraith
leavesa body thus possessed, 1t becom  a	po  ng conothingand taking

no acnons on 1  own.	'	_. '/-  / /n
Once a wraith h conditioned a Consort (by u ing Rein In the Mind on thac Consort ac least lO times), th player may m e'--anitxten<lecl Physical Challenge against her target. When the wraith coralsenough"iticc:;'ses tp equal co the number of Meneal Traus the hQst possesses, she succeern;. ,- •  "'
-  -	... ::..J.
Two weeks after its ortginal'ssoul removal, the hesr b9dy will begin a slow pro­ cess of decay. Before too long, it wlll come useless, Therefore, most wraiths u;e Obliterate the Soul only in the direst circumstances. This arr is ineffective again>1 other supernatural beings, and can only be initiated once per game session. If che fLrSt attempt to Obliterate thc·Soul gains nosuccesses, the wraith must wait until the nextgame to cryagain. On the qther hand, even one successon the initial challenge will allow for follow-up attempts whenever the Puppeteer feels up to 1t.
This arc costsfour Pathos and theexpenditure of rwo Willpower Traits. In ad_di•
tion, the wraith gains a number of1'emwrarv Angst poincs equal to the hose's ongi• nal Willpower Traits.
Indeath as in life, nothing's free Path 1s the currency of che afterworld, and lsurY is che Arcanos of barter. le is thedelicate dance of the deal, of shifting Pathos Corpus from one source to anoiher.Those WLth Usury can act as healers, menJi­ cants, merchants or exconioniscs; and sometimes 1111at once. It all depends on how
reputable they choose co be.   •
Usury involves power ordeath energy, ·an<J 'is accordingly mistrusted in some cucles. Many point to the Shadow as the source of tl:iis Arcanos, citing innumerable
•deal with the Devil" stories· as proof. They are; n,it so mistaken; repeated use of
Usury can raise a wraith's Temporary Angst to unhealtlw levels rapidly. When used upon the Quick, Usury is Nhing le:.s than th; theft of Ith: itself.
A wraith must touch his subject tg use Usury. To affecr mortals, chis requires another Arcanos, suLh Ill> Puppetry, Emb,xly, inhabit or Phant:ism. The Life energy thus stolen is visible to other wraiths Jb a vivid light, which dims as it is absorbed.
Guild
In their h[/da'v; He-Usurel'$ were a Guild of consid ,able reptte and political power. Ever.£1Mt for rhe ne)(ropportunity, they cast in their lot with rhc otherGuilds
when rhe J1irificers led the coup mst Charon. However, as it became clear that
thearremptCvasdoomed rofailure, thll Usurers quickIvreversed their posir\on,,strand­
ing thef6kes of the other Guilds without desper::itely net!deJ rnsourc\!S of Pathos
andcj;/pus. This 1'ctrnyal, more than any ofrhc others, doomed the revolt
Usurers have sine(' haJ ro resort m secrecy to protect themsel es, both &om z bus Srygian patrols and from vengeful Guild members who rcsenttd their "treache \ Even now, those in need bf quick G;>rpus or Pathos must follow a series ofcluesoJ wild and unorrhcxfox hunt to find a u ur,:r. I( nobody foll<,ws the client,
and if shec;ms reliable, the Usu ers will see her. Although this c..:nds to restrict

busine!!>S som'efh,ac, the  sure console themsel_ves by\h ing hig_ cr prices to cli­
ents for whom t'-,,y Jl>n c part1c1,1lady care.
.,	.
Usurers tend \"°;;peak in precise, numerical rer . Alclarrv :;o1he form of scales, allowing them to k ep tra(_lk ot'the l;,ilance ol energy transfc el:J.
innateA ilities
Assessment: Tut:.rairh cang (l'e.the rclauvelevels6f life and death within
anindividual. Careful sbutinycan r..:ve:il some idea of the person's relevant Physical Traits,aswell as their current Health or Corpus. Wounds- ppt:ar as vivid black slashes in the person's makeup, and che ohserver can estimate their severity.The wraith may also perceive life energy in general within a specific area.
The wraith makes a Static Mental Challenge, a success ac which allow the wraith to make an accurate Assessment.
Basic
S	• Transfer: The wraith may trans(ccP	b.!rween herself and another wraith.
hemay lend her Pathos co rhe subject, \lt iteal hervictim's Pathos away.This trans-
olivion
fer is always visible to onlookers as a vivid halo around the wraith receiving the Pathos. This effect is indicated by havmg the wraith receiving the Pathos hold up Transfer card (which th.e Usurer should ger at the beginning of the game, and hand off temporarily as necessary).
If the player is lending her PaLhos co the target, then only one Static Social Challenge is required to allow rhe Transter. If the wraith is using Transfer to steal Pathos, they must enter an Extended Physical Challenge; the use of the arr rhLSway gives the Usurer one Temporary Angst point.
Charitable Trust: By infusinga mortalor wraith with hisown Corpus, a wraith may heal wounds. This art can even be used on mortals without forcing the wraith first to Embody.	'
The player makes a Static Physical Challenge ro see if he can transfer hLS Cor­ pus Levels to his target.1Jw, art costs one pomt of Pathos to use, and rhe Usurer rakesCorpus damage equal to rhe number af Health/Corpus Levels he gives away.
intermediate
Exchange Rate: Th(sartallows a wraith to steal an ther person's life energy with bur a couch. Orher uses include allowing_a Usurer to transform her Corpm Levels imq Pathos, or co q-3{1Sfer someone else'sCorpus or Heald1Levels into Pathos for them lvcs.
lf the wraith uses Exchange Rate in order tll convert her own  c'o½\.is Levels mto Pathos, she must ex penJ a 1)<1int of Pathgs anJ enter an Extended Sra\rn;' ,¥emal
Challenge with t:ach success allowing her t() transmogrify her Corpus inro'Par.)los.
·1(thewraith u,e5 Exchange Rate in order to ,Leal Healrh or Corpus Leveb frofn'some­ one else, sj,c enter..an ExtcnJL,J Social Challenge. Each succc,;s for the U,urcr'&[ual. one poim of Corpus ,rolen.This useoi rhe art gives the Usurer one point of TemJrary Ang,;t.
Advanced
Investment: Thi.s an allows·a wrafth ta pour co;,us and/pr ·Pathos into a relic, storing it,for fucurt! use. The wraith mu:st foous on the relic in question, chan­
neling and caretully seitl.mg his energy intg it. The energy may rh'en beaccessed by
anyone who know, the se l's gesture or command phrase.
The player spends,two Pathos points, then marks off the number of Pathos or Corpus points that he wishi!s to mvest. Each success on an Extended Stanc Mental Challenge invests one point (up to the $Ct limtr) into.the reltc. All excess potnts "gambled" are lost. To sett! the pc,inr, in place, the 1.-ra(th must spend a Willpower Trait and assign a command phrase or gesture to "unk)(:k''  he stored reserve. Agiven relic may only store one type of energy. This art is the means by which soulfire cry,· tals are created and maiatamed.

Relles and Artifacts charged this wayshould have the number ofT raits inve5ced in them listed somewhere on the item card.
Backgrouncts
Backgrounds are extra Traits that he beyond the direct physical and supernatu· ral capabilities of a wraith. There are four Backgrounds thaL you can huy using Ne,pi·
darter four:C aracteristics
rive Traits during character generation: Amfact, Eidolon, Memoriam and Status. It Isvital to pick your Backgrounds wisely so char they work well with your character concept. In moH cases, your Storyteller should have input imo your choice of Back­ grounds to make ure that they'll fit with the gist of the chronicle. A begmnmg wraith should not have an Artifact amphibious assault vehicle; a primarily Hierar­ chygame might not be the best place for a wraith with excessive Heretic Status, and there's no reason for a wraith w1rh an mmless drifter concept to have Memoriam.
P-1ek your Backgrounds sensibly.
Artifact
Commonly fueled by Pathos, Artifacts have certainfunction:, or powers that aid the
wraith, who carry them. Artifacts are highly valuablc,and greedily sought after by the
\'ISt majoriry of wraiths. Any Restless whochooses the Artifact Background mu.t create
:1n COOJtmcrion with the Storyteller) a story explaining reasonably where and how she obtained the Anifact, and how she has managed to hang onro it.
Characters who take this Background can purchase it more than once wirh each purchase representing one Artifact of the appropriate level. Conversely, mul­ dple points spent on Artifacts can instead grant a character a more valuable and P0tent item.
for The Amfact Background 1s obcamed by taking Negative Traits at a one Trait one level of Artifact ratio.
None: Like most wraiths, rhe ch3racrer has acquired no Amfacts. ls he op·
P0std to material goods, unlucky or merely poor?
level One: A seemingly insignificanr Artifact, such as soulforged jewelry or
IO!neoboli.
135
Oblivion
Level Two: A minor Anifact, such as a oliateJ Torch or a soulsteel ltlasl
Level Three: An Artifact of ,;ome purpose, like a sword of Stygian stl'el. Othe include armor, hnmmg bcao.ms for travel in the Tempe,1, ,md Nihils in a lx,ule   rs
Level Four: A major and useful Artifact, which the Hierarchy would dearly love co possess. Examples mclude a l,'IJn that doesn't need relic huller,, net,for fish, ing relics out of the Tempest and the like.
Level Five: The mo,t useful and powerful of objects, the en\'y of all other wraiths. Charon\ sickle and mask, the raft of a Ferryman and orher such nbJccts of power qualify as Level Five Artifacts.
\nifacts of Level Four and arove should be heavily restricted in-game, a,, onli the oldest and most powerful Gaunts have rhe strength and cunnmg co hang onto them for long.
Eidolon
Just a wraith's Shadow 1s her baser self, her Eidolon 1s her higher self. l·-lowever, while all Shadow, have voices, most wraiths' Eidolons are mute. They exi,t aa, simple urge toward goodness, if at alt.
Some wraiths, however, have stronger moral senses than the average. The Eidolon of such a wraith, while never achievmg the terrihle strength of the Shadow, can directly unpacc matte andfoil the Shadow's machinations.

Each Trait in Eidolon can be spent once per game co foil the stratagem of a wraith\ Shadow. This docs not me:in retest; it means that che 'ihad,)w ha, bem decisively defeated for the moment, and cannot ace again for another hour. On the ocher hand, once an Eidolon Trait 1s used, it 1s gone for the durncion of the game.
Memoriam
The	power of the memories of the living can be intense inJeeJ, trong enough to feed the appetites oi the dead. Memoriam is a measure of how well the h\ing world remember,; a particular wraith, and how much crengch he can draw from that. DuringgameplayMemoriam is useless, but at the start ofeach evening's g.1meplay. wraiths with Memoriam m:ike a Static Test for each Memoriam Trait they po,sess.
Each success grant, the wr:uth a pmnt of Pacho,,.
Memoriam Trnirs cannot be bid.
Status
Status is more of a recognition of authnricy than anything else. It Joe, noc, howeHr, measure actual worth or achievement. Many m the burt.-aucracics of the Underworld, just as in the Skinlands, have Jone little to deserve the ix,wcr chef have. I lowever, whether Sratus is earned oc not is irrelevant; wrnichs who haw ii can use it in a variety of way,.
Each wraith begins the game with one Status Trait m one of the three maJOT factionsof Underworld society: Hientrchy, Heretics or Renegades. This ind1cillc, the wraith's initial affiliation. It is possible for a wraith to ha\'e Statu, in muhiple foe• t1ons - perhaps the wraith 1s a spy, or ha, l>cen ,erving a, an cmi,sary -  bur nol common. The more Status a wraith ha, within a group, che more respect ,he w1eld5
Cha ter four:diaracteristics
Bcnefic
Gee a re training order against a characcer from a higher-up Call for and receive basic help from fellow faction members
Order around n.-cenc inductees into the faction (within reason) Acquire basic equipment from other faction members
Obtain financial resources or useful relics from the faction Lead faction members into conflict or ln negociacioru.
Have authoncy to cuedeals withotherfactions and make themstick.
Lead large numbers of co-faccionists
Obtain Artifacts, weapons and powerful relicsfrom che faction Temporarily reduce others' Status within che faction.
Temporarily bar others from the faction
Obcam potent Artifacts from the faction (on loan) Plan and implement strategy for the faction
Call on faction members with les.ser Statusand have them respond
in that organization, and the more favors she can call in. With Status also comes ducy and responsibility, and wraiths with high Status find themselves responsible for decision, which affecc the existences of many lesser Restless.
The Status Background is obtained by taking Negative Traits at a ratio of one Trait per one level of Status. Storytellers will sometimes hand out extra Status or Increase a type of Status Traic's cost, dependmg upon the needs of the chronicle.
Status Tr:ms are not usually bid, though theycan be used in lntimidat:1on or similar Clullenges. LoMng a challenge wherea StatusTrait has been bid causes a temporary loss clface, and the StatusTrait bid is lost until the next game (at which time it returns).

In Oblivion, Status is primarily a roleplaying cool. Saymg, "I've got three Hier­ archy Status Traits," when arguing with someone over where to send the Legion­ Jlaires is another way of saying, "I have authority in this situanon; do you?" At Sto­ ryteller discretion, Status Traits can also be used to obtain concrece effects (lisced below). Status Traits u:.ed in this matter are considered to be gone cemporarily and
are regained at the rate of one per night of play. By usmg Status in this manner, the
wraith is considered to have called in her favors, bullied her underlings, pulled her atring5, and temporarily exhausted some or all of her resources.
There 1.s yet another kmd of Starns that wraiths can obtain: Starns within the shadowy organizations called the Guild,. Guild Statuscan be purchased during char­ acter creation for cwo Negative Traits per level. To belong to a Guild is to belong co
an illegal organization, and the Guilds take their secrecy very seriously.
Guild Status isharder to obtain than regular Status, and the benefits of being in 1 Guild are no1 necessarily as tangible a, tho,e that come with belonging co, say, the Hierarchy. Guild Status Traics can be used to, among ocher things:
Learn Guild signs with which members of the Guild identify themselves to
other . (I Trait)
oolivion
J
Receive help with or rutoring man  Arcanos (a.k.a. apprenticeship)(2 Trans)
Receive financial assistance or relics from fellow Guild members (3 Tram)
Be granted sanctuary at a Guild-owned Haunt (4 Traits)
Acquire the physical a.sistance of other Guild members, or get an apprentice (5 Traits)
GuiId Status can aho be used for a vanety of other things at Storyteller discre. c1on. Membership in the Guilds screeches across factional lines, and bemg able to identify oneself as a Guild member can be helpful in sravmg off many conflicts.
Guild Sracus is Gutld-specific. Status in the Artificers' Guild does not carry over co the Pardoners' Guild, and so on. It is extremely uncommon for a wraith to have Status in more than one Guild.
passions
assions are at the core of every wraith's existence. In a very real sense, a wraith's Passions are what keeps her going. She musr strive co fulfill them, otherwise they will wither. Howe1•er, if she attends ro chem, she can reap a harvest of Pathos, enahling her co continue her ghostly journey.
As stared m Chapter Three, a player muse choose four Passions char fie her character's personality, background and history. To regain Pathos by means of a Passion, the character
must either evoke the emotion at the center of the Passion in another or feel char emotion strongly hen;elf. Sometimes a wraith will change the environment m evoke the desired emotion in spectacors; other times she will simply strive to follow the Passion itself Eicher path, w1th Narrator approval, can lead co rhe wraith gaming additional Pathos Traits, up ro a maximum of 10.
ln any scene where a character evokes an emotion in someone else, rhe player makes an Extended Simple Test to sec if she can sympathize with the emotions of those around her. Onl.y with a win m the Simple Test can she receive a wraith's spincual energy called Pathos, where each win allows her cogain another point of Pathos. If a Narrator is present, :.he must approve the Pathos gain hy verifying che sincemy of the emotion felt or invoked. If no Narrator is present, the consent of all players present is necessary for a test agamst a Passion. No Passion can be re.seed against more than once every two hours; codo so more frequently would be cocheapen the Passion in quemon. If a wraith fails a rest to gain Pathos from a Passion, char Passion ts considered to be Numlx.-d for the duration of the evenmg. Numbed Pas· sions cannot be tested against; however they are recovered ar the beginning of the next evening.

Drawing Pathos from unfocused emotion can be difficult. Feelings are some• times impure, tinged by conflicting drives, and a wraith's sympathy with these moo· grel emorions is not always complete. However, when a wraith isdirectly involved in_ following the dictates of her Passion, she can draw upon extraordinary reserves ot strength. In cases where the wraith is lircrally pursuing one of her Pas ions (in che Judgment of rhe Narrator), an Extended Stmple Test allows the wratth co conrinue co retest and gain Pathos 1f she ties at any pomc.
Some sample emotions that can serve as the base of Pass1om include love, an­
)!',faith, hope, envy, lust, pnde, sorrow, pam and greed.
Some examples of Passions are:
Anger: Fight injustice Avenge your death Punish all spousal abusers
Overthrow a corrupt politician
Fight the criminal syndicate that destroyed your neighborhood
Love: Find a new owner for a cherilihed item Protect your daughter
Declare a love that you couldn't before
Help your true love find someone else
Greed: Possess a particular valuable item Serve the Hierarchy for payment
Protect the family fortune
Lust: Experience gratification that you never knew m life Live vicariously through those you knew before dying
Faith: Become a martyr for a cause you know is right Foster belief in a higher power
Help your family to keep their faith
Hope: Protect the oppressed Protect a homeless helter
Prevent a loved one from committing suicide
Sorrow: Make your Haunt a place of remorse Give gnef to your enemy
Th,.. wraith will nor always be able to work specifically coward her purposes as tared in her Passions. After all, although she can fight ro maintain her ties to her former life, she has other concerns: the stability of her Circle, politics in her Necropolis, herShadow's encroachments and so on. If a wraith neglectsa Passion for IDO long, however, ac Storyteller discretion it can become Numbed, and require a Willpower Trait and a Pathos pomt to be reactivated. Passions that remain Numbed fur three consecutive game sessions are considered co have faded. The Passion is
snicken from the character sheet, and the character herself falls intoa Harrowing. In addition, purposes are sometimes completed. lf a wraith seeks to protect her
.mortal lover and he dies, she will no longer be able to fulfill that Passion. At this
poinc, she would also fall intoa Harrowing.
FadL-d Passions can only be replaced at Storyteller discretion. A wraith who lose­
her last P ton, however, falls into the Void, and the character is removed from play.
ratltos
Pathos is pure emotional energy, harvested by wraiths from their Passions an<l
lllled to fuel their existences. Pathos powers Arcanoi, heals Corpus damage, and serves
,Is SUstenance to wraiths.
'
olivion
A wraith's Pathos Pool often fluctuates, depending on how often he makes USe of his Arcanoi or needs co heal. It is entirely possible for a wraith to find himself completely out of Pathos; chisdoes not mduce a Harrowing, but will leave him more or less defenseless until he is able to exercise one or more of his Passions.

AU wraiths regain one point of Path_os at the beginnmg of each night ofgameplay.
fetters
Fetters are material objects bindmg a wraith to the Skinlands. Theyare, mfact part of what makes a lost soul a wraith. Each Fetter represents something, someon: or someplace that was important to the wraith in life. The shot glass with your name on it, kepr behind the counter at your favorite bar, may be a Fetter, but it represents more than might be immediately apparent; perhaps you spent much of your time drinking from that very glass, ignoring your family. Take great care in choosing your Fetters, for they can provide a wealth of information about your character as well as a myriad of ideas for potential plots.
A wraith starts off with four Fetters. During character creation he should de­ scribeexactly what each is and what it means to him.This list should then be turned over to the Storyteller. The listofcharacter Fetters in a gameshould always beacces­ sible to aU Narrators and Storytellers; you never know when a Momtor might beon the loose.
Fetter are what anchor a wraith to the Skinlands. If any of his Fetters is de­ stroyed, the wraith is Harrowed. Objects that are Fetters should be marked as such, characters who are Fetters should be notified of such, and should either be killed/ destroyed, a Narrator must be notified immediately. It 1s then chat Narracor's respon­ sibility to find the character connected to the Fetter and lead him to a Harrowing.
A wraith can use his Fetters to heal and to aid in his crossing over the Shroud. The contest necessary to cross the Shroud has its difficulty reduced by three in the vicinity of a wraith's Fetter.
"",'\,
Inaddmon, wraiths can use their Fetters to heal. A wra1rh seekmg to heal ag- vated damage can slip inside a Fetter and Slumber- essentially hibernate -  for hliurs of gameplay hy going coa Narrator and announcing his incenuon. During daisrime che wraith is unconscious and cannot act, and it 1s recommended that the
player spend those two hours Shadowguidmg or helping to create Harrowings. Ar
theend Clf che Slumber, the wraith makes an Extended Static Challenge to see if he
.sccovers his Corpus. A wraithcan regain no more than three levels of Corpus through
a single Slumber.
Ifall a wraith's Fetters are destroyed, he can no longer visit the Shadowlands for iexcendeJ periods of rime. He may remain m the Shadowlands for a number of min­ ute5equal to his Physical Tratt rating at a time.
Willpower
Willpower gives a character the exrrn strength to overcome obstacles and ro
succeed where others would surrender and fail. Each character begins the game with
_anumber of Willpower Traits. These Willpower Traits can be used for almost any­ thing that the player deems important (and chat a Narrator deems acceptable). For example:
Willpower can be used co power certain Arcanoi.
Willpower Traitscan beexpended to block or resist the actions of the Shadow.
A Willpower Trait can be spent co modify a single aspect of a Harrowing.

Willpower allows a character to replenish all lose Traits in any one category:
1:'bysical, Social or Meneal.
A Willpower Trait can be expended to negate the effects of any one Mcneal
•Social Challenge.
.	Once a Willpower Trait has been used, it is gone until the end of the story. At
'!his time, the character regains all Willpower used during the course of the story.
cl1ater five:  ule
chapter
ules
1ve:
And who can resist such enchantment, even with che knowledge that it 1.1 really a secret evil which gilds our WOT!d wich wonders, 1t1hile this same evil may ultimar.ely ruin boch those wonders and our world
Thomas Ligotti, "The Music of the Moon"
here arc times whne. a pla·y.er will want to have her character do something  that can't he accomplished  through simple
.,  •	roleplaying, such as attacking another person, pickinga lock or
.  even searching for a file ma computer system. When this hap•
.	• _i1 ,  pens, you need rules.
•		Rulesare an 1mperat1ve part of any game; theydefine what can and cannot be done. Without them, there would be chaos
In effect, there would be no limlCS. Your limimnons and parameters help define
you arc and give you a sense of accomplishment when you manage to triumph
tr them, and others.
Stilt, the primary focusof th!S game 1s to rell a good story, and it's alwa)'s best to to defeat your opponents through rolcplaymg and manipulation rather than by liter confrontation. When confrontation does occur, rules are necessary to govern
situations.
Time in Mind's Eye's Theatre works as it does in real life. Ir moves forward lileaorably and relentlessly. For the most part, everything in Oblivion is played out ttal time, and players are expected co sray in character unless they have a rules
.tion.
During rhe cour.;e of a story, iris assumed that a player is always "in character." player should only rarely drop character when interacting with ocher players. Do,
I	olivion	,
ingso ruins the armospherc foreveryone involved. Challenges may be talked through, but 1£a player needs to take a break, he should inform a Narraror. Furthermore, chat player should noc interact with any of the other players while out of character. Nor knowing if you're dealmg wirh Desmond rhe Deathlord or your buddy Frank weak. ens  the shared illusion of the game.
The onlyother exception is when a Narrator calls fora "time-out." This may be necessary ro resolve a dispute or to change rhe scene if the srory calls for it When "Time-our!" is called, all players within hearin distance must stop whatever rhey are doing until the Narratorcalls our,"Resume." Time-oursshould be kept to a mini­ mum, since they interrupt the flow of a story.
Challenges
Dunng the course of most stories, there will come a time when two or more players will come intoa conflict that cannot be resolved simplyand quickly. It doesn't matter whether thissort ofconflict isa firefight or a test of will. Thisface-off iscalled a challenge. The system for resolving challenges in Oblivion is simple, and 10 most cases, a Narrator does not need co be present when a challenge is played.

Roleplaying does not necessarily have to end when a challenge begins. Experi­ enced players can seamlessly integrate a challenge into their roleplaying so tharout­ siders don't know that anything unusual is going on. At the player's option, hand signals can be used to indicate when certain Traits and powers are being employL.J.
Finally, in order for this system to work, players need to work together. Players need ro educate each other on the rules and agree on what Traits can he used in a challenge. Compromise and cooperation are the bywords of the game.
The challenge system presented in this chapter is also part of the basic rule,for rhe Mind's Eye Theatre system. By combmmg The Oblivion with olher games in the series, players can have wraiths interact w1rh vampires, werewolves, mortals and other types of characters. This system of challenges is also included in Masquerade Second Edition and Apoca.lypse.
UsingTraits
Before you can begin to learn how challenges work, you must first understand what defines a character's abilities. A character is created by choosing a number of adjectives that describe and define thal person as an individual. These adjectives are called Traits, and are described in Chapters Three anJ Four. These Traits are used hJ declare a challenge against another character or against a static force represemed by a Narrator.
initial Bid
A challenge begins with a player "bidding" one of her Traits against her opp<!' nenc. At the same time, she must declare what the conditions of the challenge are, 1.e., firmg a gun or attacking with a sword, etc.The Jefender must then decide hl'"' she will respond. She can either relent tmrnediacely or bid one of her own Tra1 in response.
.·,: (!iarter five: ules
When players bid Trairsagainst one another, theymayonly useTraics rharcould sensil'-ly he used in that i.iruauon. Ss.:ntially, chi, means a player can usuall} only u;c Tr,1ics from the same category as her opponenr's Traits. Mo,c challenges are cac­ egon:cd as Physical,Social or Meneal, and all Traitsused ma challenge must be from the ,ame category unless 1c 1 stated otherwise in the rules concerning specific situa­ unns. Experienced players may offer each other more creanve leeway, but that is
mictly by mutual agreement.
If the defender rclenrs, she automatically (o:;es the challenge. For example, 1f she were b:ing attacked, she would suffer a wound. If she matches the challenger's bid, 1he cwo immediately go coa ccst (de,cribed below). Those Traits bid are put at nsk, a, the loser of the test noc only loses the challenge, buc the  Trait she bid as well.
Jesting
Once hoch parties mvolved in a challenge have bid a Trait, they immediately go 10 a test. The test ic:;clf is nor whac you may chink- the outcome is random, but no cardsor dice are used. The rwo players face off against one another by playmg Rock­ Papcr-Scissors. le may sound a little silly, but it works.
If you lo:-e the test, you lose the Trait you bid. The Trait is lost for the duration

,( th..- stnry (this usually means the rescof the evening). Essentially, you've lost some of your ,elf-confidence in your own capabilities. You can no longer use that Trait dfectively, at least unril you regain confidence in your Traits.
TI1c test works like the moment in poker when the cards are turned over and the winner llo dl'Clared. There are two pos:,ible re:;ults: Somebody wins, or there's a tie.
In th..- case of a tie, the player, must then reveal the number of Traits chat they po:s_,e,;s in the category ust.-d (Physical, Social or Meneal). The player with fewer Traits loses the test and therefore loses rhe challenge. Note that the numher ofT raicsyou've lost in previous challenges, or (o.;r forany other reason, counts toward this total.The trick to the dtclararion is rhac you may lie about the number of Traits you possess, but only by Jcclaring fewer Traits than you actually ix   - you may never lie and say that you have more Traits than you actually do. This allows you ro keep the actual number of Traits you po,;se&, a secret, although domg so mar be nsky. The challenger is always the first to dcclan: his number of Traits. If both players declare the same number of Traits, 1hen the challenge isa drawand both player, lose the Trait(s) they bid.
oolion
th,m Rnck, Paperor Scissors. Refore players can use the gc ture ina tc,t, they mu t explain what tht•y arc anJ  how d1t'Y are used.
ock-paper-Scissors
Ii y011 don't hapren to know (or reml·mlx·r) wh,H we mean hy Rod,.Paper­
Sc1"ms, here'5 rhc	person face off and, on thl' count of
three, show one of the  three hand ge,tures. "R,xk" is just a b,1sic fist. "P;tper" is just a flar hand. "Scis.<ors" 1s reprc nted by sticking out two finger. spreaJ aparr from each« ,1hcr You then compare the two gestures rodcterminc the winner. Rock Cru$hes Sci,s.,rs. Scissor, cuts Paper. Paper covers Rock. IJencical signs indicate a tie.
Adjudication
If you have any 4ue,tions or ar1-'llments about the rule or thec<>nJi11on, of a challenge, you need rn hnd a Narrator to mah•a judgment.Tr to rem,11n tn chJrac• rer while looking fi.,r a Narrnwr. Any intertup1inn in the progress of the ,wry sh<>ulJ beavoiJeJ, w work problems out wirh other playt'rs if it i, at all possible If y,,u Jon'1 knll\V the exact correct apphc;1tion oi a certain rule, it's u,ually better to win it rather 1han intt-rrupt the fl<>w o( rhe -'tory by hunting Jown ,l N:irrat<:>r. Remember, while you'reout ufcharacter looking for help, other charncter can't cont.Kr you and Jo things that they need to Jo, anJ the entire cffoct can snowball. Coopcra11on i, the key to telling a gooJ story.
Complications
Thert are a number of ways in which a challenge can he complicmcJ. The ahove rule, arc enough c,1 re,olve mo,c di,pu1c,, but the following rules aJJ  ;1 few bdl anJwhtstb.
NegativeTraits
l-.fan}char,Kter, have Negative.Tram. These are Traits thatc.1n he useJ against a character by hi, opponent. Ourin!( the initial bid of any challenge, after you have each hiJ one Tran, you can call out a Ne!!ati\'e Tra1c that you believe your opponent po scsse,. I( your opponent dl't'-' inuecd posses\ the Negatin- Trait, he i, rhen forced to 1'1J nn additional Trait. although you mu,r ,till only risk your one Trait a, u,ual.11

• Cl1aterfive: ules
he dne$ not possess that Negative Trait, you muse risk an aJJ1tional Trait, (Pathos rx1ints cannot Ix useJ co substitute for Phy,ical Traits m thb instance.) You may inteJ?rate as many Neiiarive Traits as you wbh, one by ()ne, Juring the initial biJ phast: of a challenge, as long as you can pay the price if you're wrong.
If your opponent does not haveaJd1tional Traits to biJ, chl'!n your Trait is not at risk during the challenge. Additionally if you guess more than one Negative Trait char your opponent cannot match, you gain that many additional Traits in rhe case of a tie or an overbid. The saml!effect works in reverse, however, and will favor your opponent if you do not have additional Traits remaining co match incorrect Nega, rive Trait guesses.
It 1.:an
you can raise the srakes for your opponent, possibly even to the point where she relents rather than risking addittonal Traits, Just make sure your sources of mforma• tion arc dependable,
Overoidding
Overbidding is the system by which older wraiths and Gaunts (who often have coruiderably more Traits than younger opponents) may prevail in a challenge, C\'en if they lo,e rhe initial test. An ancient Gaunt with 18 Physical Traitsshould be able tocrush an Enfant with five. Thb system is designcJ ro make that pos.ible.
Once the teM has been made, rhe loser has the option of calling for an "over, biJ." In order co call an overbid, you must also ri,k a new Trn1t; rhe original one has already been lost. Ar this point, the two players must reveal the number of Trait:, thty possess, starting with the player who called for an overb1J. If you have at least
<louhlc the  number of Traits your opponent doe, in the appropriate category, you
may then attempt another te t. As with a tie, you can tate a number ofTrairs !es than the actual number you have and keep your true power secret. Thiscan be dan• gerou , though, unless you are completely confiJent in your estimation of your opponent's abiltcies.
o li on · ·,
Static challenges
,menme:, y ,u may ha\'c co undergoa challenge ag,unst a Narracor rather than against ano1her player, such as when you arc trying ro pick n lock or cross the Shroud. In ,uch c1rcumscance,, you merely bid the Trait that would be appropriate, then immediately perform a test ai.-ain,c the Narrator. Before the ce.,c is made, che Narr.•• tor decides on the difficulty of the task you are am:mpting. The test proceeds exa..tly a,  it would if you were testing a1?3insc another character. 0( course. you mayoverbid m a static action, bu1 beware, because the Narrator <:an overbul as well.
Sometime, Narrator:; may lea\'e noteson object,, uch asbooband door:;.Thc,e notes indicate the typt!of challenge that mw,t be won for something to occur (such as unJeman<lmg the wntent, ofa hook, openmg a door, or identifying an amfact), Wnh rxpencnc:e, ym1 may learn how d1fficulc it b open a locked door. Howc\'er, difficulty rating, can be 85 v;mable a, your ch,1racrer'> Deml',1nor.

(ha terfive: ules
Simple Tests
Simple Tests are useJ w Jc1ermine 1f you can <lo something succes,;fully when there ts no real opposllion. Simple Tests are often used when using Arcanoi. Mo,t Simple Tests do not require you to risk or bid Traits, though some may.
When a Simple Test is called, a test (Rock-Paper-Sm!,Ors) is done aga1mt the Narrator. Unlesi; otherwise specified, the player succeeds on a wm or a tie.
Abilities
While you can easily and quickly execute many complex acttons in Oblivion with simple challenges, this is not always the case. Sometimes Ah1hties- theskills, talents and knowledges that characters use - are nec=ary.
An Abiliry allows your character 10 engage in, 1f not excel at, a pamcular type of
activity that she would not nonn;illy be able to attempt. Performing such a task often involves risking Traits. If the character 1s defeated in the challenge, she may choose to temporarily sacrifice a level in the appropnate Ability to call for a rcce1;c. While any
Tra11s risked arc lost regardless, it tsstill possible to win the challenge. An Ability lose in this manner is recovered at the beginning of the next session. If your character looes all her levels in a particular Abiltty in chi:; manner, she may not use that Ability again until she recovers at least one level (i.e., at the next game session).
Ofren a challenge of one sort or another accompanies the use of Abilities. The Narrator choreographs some of these challenge. , not only assignmg the relative dif­ ficulty of the challenge in Traits but also actually performing the test with you. The Narrator alsosetsa Jifficulry against which the Sraric Challenge is performed; mrer­ prers the amount of time required to attempt the skill; and possibly even asks that you pretend to perform the action m question, or that you drop out of play for the duration of the task.
Also, you can use other Abilities, such as Subterfuge or Melee, directly against another player. This sort of usage rarely reqmres the assistance of a Narrator. Note that you may choose Abihues multiple times to represent a high degree of expertise in that skill or in a broad number of related fields, such as with Performance, Occult and Linguistics.
kealt
A character in Oblivion has LO Health Levels, which can be taken away de­ pending upon what sort of damage she takes and what tare ofbcing she was in when injured.
Wraithsan Health
Unlike ocher dwellers in rhe World of Darkness, wraiths have two measures of their health,or Corpus.These are called Permanent and Temporary Corpus. Tempo­ rary Corpus 1s how healthy the wraith is currendy, while Permanent Corpus indi­ cates che wraith's max11num number of Corpus Levels. A wraith's Temporary Corpus can never exceed her Permanent; 1f she  has seven levels of Permanent Corpu,, she
·--·. .-- ·onlivion
can never h.ave more th,m seven level, of Tempurary, no matter how much Patho; she has available to heal w1rh.
When a wraith takes damage from combat or interference from the Skmlands it is Temporary Corpus that is marked off. If a wraith loses all of her Tempora ­ Corp115,she falls intoa Harrowing (SeeChapter Six for more detaibon Harrowings). During the Harrowing, 1t is po. sible for a \\Taich to lose Permanent Corpw; instead. However, at no other time can a wraith lose Permanent Corpus.

Each Oblivion character begins with 10 Permanent and 10 Temporary Corpu,,. Over the course of play Temporary Corpus will go up and down, while Permanent Corpus will probably slowly decrease. There 1s no way known co replace Permanent Corpus once it 1s lost, though there are rumors that certain less scrupulous LJ5urcrs and Masquer have a few leads....
States of Being
Wraiths have J,fferenr stares of Corpus, reflecting how i;olid they arc m che Skinlands or the Shadowlands. These scares are:
Material - When the wraith 1s solid m the Skmlands through the use of the Embody Arcanllt'. This allows the wraith to mke Jamage as1fshe were a physical being.
Corporeal - The normal Catus of any wraith, intangible m the living bur solid to the Rescl .
Incorporeal - Whena wraith isdamaged byan object in the Skmlands, and her form hecomes misty and mdistinct with regards to the lands of the living. Incorporeal wraiths can still be louche<l and damangeJ by other Shadowlands objects and denizens.
Destruction - When a wraith loses all of her Corpus, she is irnmeJiately drawn into the Tempest anJ pulled intoa Harrowing.
Substantialityand Going incorporeal
Wraithsarc normally Corporeal as regards both the SkinlanJs anJ Shadowland . When an ohiect in chc Skinlands impacts a wraith wirh enough energy to hurt (i.e.,
(ha ter
wha! is called 'Tht.> Rule uf Ouch"), then rhe wraith luses one level otof Corpus anJ J:,ecomes Incorporeal. A wraith touchinga wall c)r havinga leaf blown 1h1hmu h where he's standing is not enough to cause Corpus loss and lncorporealtry; •; a bullet or a
,lammed door is. In addition, a wrairh can voluntarily surrenJcr a levelel of Corpus to " Incorporeal (by running through a wall, for example).
No matter howsevere the impact from theSkinlands, however, the wrai'aith never takt>li more than a single level ofTemporar,: Corptbdamage before going lncoTJX,wreal. An lncor­ pc•rcal wranh cannot be affected or toucbeJ byanything physical in the Skinlnlamk Hecan, how vcr, be touched and damaged normally by wraiths or object\ in the restst of d1c UnJer­ wc,rld; a Stygian steel sword will cuta wraith r -gardles. of ifhc isCorporeal d or Incorporeal
Wraiths are considered to default ro Corporeal starus. When a w •ra1th goes In­ corporeal. he must indicate his altered starus hy making the geHure ii indicating hi!; new ,;tatus. Specifically, this consists of clenching the left flSt and placacing 1t at the right shoulder. The Narrator determines exacrlv how longa wraith remmains Incorpo­ real. Usually the ,tate lasts anywhere from 30 seconds up to three mimnutes.
Aggravated Damagein the Underworld
Certain creatures or obiccts damage wraiths so severdy rhat the e wounds they in0ict cannot be healed either normally or easily. These mjuries, calleled aj?gr:wareJ wounds, come from specific sources:
Weapons made from Stygian steel.
The claws, teeth and orher appendages of Spectres.
The claws, teeth of vampires, werewolves and other supcmatutural creature ia ,uming they enter the Deadland;, or the target wraith is Embod1ed)J),
The rare substance known as barrow-flame.

Soulfire crystals (crystalized Pathos).
The effects of certain Arcanoi's arcs (specifically OutraJ:te and L Usury).
The Narrator may also chOOl>e ro declare a parucular nasty injuryry to be aggra­ vated damage.
Healing
Wraiths can regain l,ne lose point of Temporary Corpus points by,y expendmg a Point of Pathos. The healing process takes ihree minutes, though at NaJarrator Jiscre- 110n this time can be increased or decrcaseJ Certain Arcanoi can alsalso aiJ in the
151
::. $..	,
·oolivion :• •--
i!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!-::!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
healing proces:.. Usury in particular can be useJ to help restore a wraith's Corpus hy
allowing wraiths to use Pathos from other:. in tirder to heal.
Healing aggravated damage cosc:; three Pathos points and one Jay per level. The Moliace Arcanos (specifically the arc called Sculpr) abo allows a wraith ro heal him.elf of aggravated damage; for more information on rhb, :,ee Chapter Four.
Wraiths wich Fetters also have che option ofSlumber when it comes to healing. A Slumbering wraith, if she spend, eight uninterrupted hour. in her Fetter, may regain a, many Corpus Levels of non-aggravated damage as the Narrator rhmb ap­ propriate. This usually amounrs ro twoor three levels, hut more or Jes:,can  he handed out as a Narrator deemsappropriate. Unless the rcsr of the characters involved 11, rhe game are also Slumbering, the player whose wraith is Slumbering must Mt ouc cii game to represent her rime in her Fetter. However, thisdoes not mean that she mu.1t leave the game. Instead, she can, ifshe and the Narrator choo c. still be acrive1n thl' game by playinga nonplayer character or helpingout the Narrator with Swrytelling.
ANote onslumoering
\v"lll·n ., \\T,lllh lumbl"r,, ,he ,Ktu:i.lly ,ink,. mi., her Fener an,!i, rn1lon ,·r
phy,1c,tlh "rr<''<"nt," e,·<·n 111 th,· Un<k-rworl-1. T,, ,1 p.i,sing wrnith. the F,·ner
,, ill l,,,11;11" 11<1 tr.K,· ,,t h,,u,111 :i Slumbc-rmg wra1rh. Thi., worb for F.:11..,r, 1ha1
,,r,·.,1,1,·c1,. rb.:,·, ,,r rt·,,1,I,·. ,111<1 a" r.iirh c.m ,,nh·1--t· fon:e,I ou1 of,, F,·ttcr I,y rlw "l'l'lic,111<111 <>I cerr:iin 'l'<"l"J.lli:t·,l A.rem<', arr-. Orh nvise, th!! nnly way a I\ r;111h <,lll be t,•r<"<',I t<, l,·,n t· a F,·111."r inn 1l11nrarilv i, thr,111gh darnal!<' ,it  ,<1n1l' ">n r,, rlw Fetr,·r 1r,.,[f.
Willpower
Willpower gives a character the extra srrength to overcome ohstacles and to succeed where others would surrender and foil. Each character begms rhe game with a number of Willpower Traits. These Willpower Traits can be used for almost ,my­ thing chat the player deems important {and that a Narrator deems accepral:,le). For example:
Willpower can be used to power certain Arcano,.
Willpower Traitscan beexpended to block or resist the actionsof the ShaJt)w.
A Willpower Trait can be spent ro modify a single aspect of a Harrowmg.
Willpower allows a character to replenish all lost Traits in any one categorr Physical, Social or Mental.
A Willpower Trait can be expended to negate the effects of any one Mental or Social Challenge.
Once a Willpower Trait has been used, it is gone unril the end of rhe srory. At this time, the character regams all Willpower used during rhe course of the srory.

Moh Scene
During the course of many swnes, you are inevitably going ro N! drawn intoa challenge in which several people want to be involved. Multi-parry challenges c,m be confusing, bur 1f you follow these simple guidelines, you shouldn't hJn- much
d1aterfive: ule
iculry. These rule are most u:.eful m combat situations, but they can be used with
,arly any sorr of group challenge.
The fiN thing you need to do is decide who is challengmg whom. This is usu• llvobvious, but when it's nm, you need a quick way to work chmgsouc.Simply have iryonc involved cmmr to three at the same time. On three, each player point:. at
1e individual he 1s challenging.
The fir:.t challenge that must be re.,;olve<l involves the person who has the most
·:people pomtmg at him. Determine what the appropriate category of Traits would be Physical. Social or Mental. Each player pointing at the defender muse bid one appropriate Trait. This group must also choose a leader. The defender must bid as '1118nY TrJit,; l!S there are people opposing him. If he does not have enough Traits co doso, he automatically loses the challenge. If he does have enough Traits, a test is
,erfonned between the defender and the chosen leader of the attackers. The rest of
the challenge conunues as normal, although any comparison of Traits or overbid­
!ling may only he done by the group leader.
If rhe defender wins the test, he is unharmed, but he can choose to affect one 111ember of the attackinggroup. Usually, as in the case of a combat, this would mean licting one wound. Additionally, all the Traits bid by the attackers are lost. If the ker,, win, they may inflict one wound, and the defender loses all the Traits he
risked.
Afrer the fir:.t challenge is concluded, go on co the next one. Continue the
process until each character who has declared an action has been the target of a 1allcnge or has donated Traits.
Snme people question exactly what a player can respond with when he has been 1llenge<l. Typically, if someone initiate a Physical Challenge, the defender can 1ly respond with Physical Tmits, unle.,s he possesses an Arcanos or some other ility which i considered to be always active. He cannot respond with the use of
.rcanu1tha1are nor active or another Ability until after the first challenge has been
,plcted. Social and Mental Challenges work rhe same way.
air Escape IS a simple rule that allows players co escape from poten• tiallydeadly sinl3tions withouu1cruallyvaultingover cablesorcharg­ in!( headlong out ofa room, possiblycausing harm co themselves or ochers.17-us rulealsoallows playe toavoid combat without going
I through cumbersome challenges cosee if they can "get away."
When you use this rule, you can call "Fair Escape" any• ume you see another player approaching with whom you do nor wish co mteract. Once you call"Fair Scape," you may leave
.  carea without bemg pursued. Therearc several guidelines which musr be followed "'hen using this rule, however:
You may nm u.se the F.ur Escape rule 1f the person approaching is nearby IWirhin conversational distance). In such cases, you must m1tiate a challenge. Use

Oolivion
i!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
common sense in place.-; where there 1s a great Jeal of noise anJ conversational di,,. ranee 1s reduced to a mm1mum (e.g., a nightclub).
is
surrounded) may negate the use of Fair Escape. Again, use common sen:.e.
A character with Argos (EnshrouJ) may employ Fair Escape at any time be.
may also use
has
initiated.
into the Tempci.t.
knowledge of Argo,
These
l.)uicken play, nor co obstruct it. Always cry to when employing Fair
Additional Systems
hissection discussessomeof the additional rulesand complic ­ tions that somenmes come into play in Oblivion. Ir also de­ scribes some different systems for resolving character interac­ tions. However, this 1s more of a set of options than of rules.
There is nothing	in the next several pages that you
Combat
'' 1 need ro know, only things that you might want ro know. Thc,e ad<lirional systems can add more depth and detail to your game, or you can just ignore rhem and run with the basics.
ht! basic challenge system used in Oblivion has already been presented earlier in the chapter. This section contains a fow basic modifications to the combar system and elaboration on it.
Combat 1s the usual intent behind Physical Challenges. fuentially, combat involves two characters in physical con· flict. The player agree what the outcome of d,e challenge will be, each player bids an appropriate Trait, anJ a te,c is resolved to determine the victor. The following rules allow for \·aria•
tions on those basic rules, such as situations using surpme or weapons.
The agreeJ outcome of a Physical Challenge usually involves the loser being iniured. This is nor, however, rhe only possible result. Wraiths can attempt to di,• arm, immobilize, pm, trip, or arm wrestle each other without causing acrual Corpu, damage. The only necessity is that both participants agree what the outcome of 1h<' challenge will be, depending upon who wins it. Bear m mmd chat the desireJ re,ults
of a combat challenge can be different for both participants, particularly if only one
party is actually interested in fighting. For example, a hungry Specrre may wish co attack a lost wraith who has no clue as to his whereabouts and whosimply wishes to escape. The twodo a Physical Challenge, and in doingso set rhestakes: The Spectre w1,hes to claw at the wraith, while the wraith wants to flee as quickly as possible. If the Spectre wins, the wraith's flight has been checked by the Shadow-Eaten\ a;­ saulr. If the wraith wins, rhe Spectre's strike misses and the wraith escapes.
Ir falls to players to police themselves so char the outcomes of challenge. are in keeping wirh the rest of the game. Initiating a challenge with "I Brutally attempt to
Cnaler	 ule
Corpus, sending the rest of yl,u down mro a Harrowmg while I
,kull as a souvenir," is excessive, and .iny player who does so
•• overenrhusiasm immediately.
Surprise
If a player does nor respond withm three seconds of the declaration of a Physical Oiallcnge, the player

mar he is not fully prepared for what's commg. Sometime!> a player is busy wiLh another
activity, d=n't hear a challenge, or 1sJust playinga character who isn't prepared for the attaek (a victim of a sneak arrack, or perhaps JUSt an exceedingly clueless wraith). Re­ sponding to an attack isdefined by amwenng the att:acker's Challenge in kind; saymg, "Wair a minute, I'll be with you assoon as I'm doneover here,"d=n't qualify, unfortu­ nately. On the other hand, any challengeissued must beboch coherenr and audible, and cannot be made from exce.sive distance or in such a way that che environment of the game itself prevents the challenge from being heard clearly.
Surprise simply means that the only a surprised defender can be harmed by Lhe outcome of the first challenge in a fight. The challenger, fully aware of what's gomg
,on,cannot be harmed dunnga challenge when she hassurprise. In other words, even ifthe defender wins a challenge when she is surprised, all she doe isprevent her elf lrom taking damage. The anacker merely has her assault stymied and does not take anyCorpus damage. Furthermore, if the challenger loses the test, by risking another Trait she can call for a second challenge. With thissecond challenge, however, play ttterts ro the usual mode, and wmners and lo:;ers are determined as normal.
Surprise is only in effect for the first challenge of a conflict; all further chal­
lenges are re lved normally.
Weapons
No  real weapons are ever allowed in Mind's Eye Theatre games, for obvious rea­
:bls. Even nonfunctional props are forbidden with no ifs, and orbuts. The Mind's Eye 'theatresystemdoe:. nor use props ofany kind, nor arc players required (or allowed) even IOtOUch one another. Weapons are purely an abstraction in this game. Weapon car , "'hichd1:,-play the  faclliand statistics ofa particular weapon,should beused instead ofany
J1rors that even
thould be written
resemble
ilnagine yourself co bean avenging wraith, you cerrainlyshould have no trouble imagin­
Blga:;oubceel dagger or a relic p1srol in your hand.
o!ivion	ij:
A  wearon gm.-s m wielder cxrm Tran . S..1mctimc, this advantage i, off-ct bya J1sadvan1agc in terms of a Ni.,ganvc Tmir. E.ic:h weapon has (Inc to three extm Traits· the,;e may be u.-.c<l in an, challenge in which the weapon	employed. These Trai cannot he ust....l m placeof your Tra1t, when pl.ti;mg your inmal bid. ln,tec-nd, they:idd to
your coral when comparing Traits, such as m ,:;1,e c>f a tic during a test or :in O\'erb1,I.Jn addition,some weapc,n., have,pecial ah1litie.that can bcemployl.'\l.The ,1:imai:ea weaf'l:lll inflict:. is )united 11nly by mutual agreement, although 1t is generally a."umed that an inJury incurred from a blow rc<luces the target',Tempomry Corrus by a single lc\'el
D1sad\'antagcs are we.ikne,,cs inherent 10 the wcnpon. These can be used by the wielder's opr<1nenc in precisely rhe amc way a Negative Traic:. an: uscJ against an individual. The wearon's Neg-Jtive Traitscan only be u,cd against the wielder of th,tt weapon, even in the middle of a mob enc. Furthermore, Negative Trttb1<1r a weapon must be appropriate to the situation. Trying to use a relic pisrol's Nq•:irive Trait of Loud w,,n't work 1f your a,-_sailant has :icquired a relic ,ilcnccr.

Ii a Negative Trait of your weapon is named by your opponent, aml that Tran applies to the situanon, you suffer a one Trait penalty (i.e., you are required to n,k an oddicional Trait). If }'<)Ur opponent calls out" Neb1tiw Trait of your weapon that doesn't apply to the muauon, he takes a one Trait pl·nalty instead.
Stan,rics for weapons are written on cards and carried along with your charac­ ter ,het!t Weap,,,n card, 5pei;1fy the capacitic, of each wear,.)n. Weap.,n carJ nllow other player, to see that you actually posses,11 weapon -  when you have a weapon card in your hand, you are considered to be holding the weapon. Each Wt!apon h.i,a concealabiliry raung. If the weapon ts not concealable, you mu,t display chat card at all times. Plus, weapons cards must bccarried in a manner comistenc with the we.ipon they represent. SoulforgeJ claymores c:m't be pulled out of pockets, and relic submachine gum don't fit up a sleeve. lmtead, card, fur non-concealable wi>apons must be kcpr in h,mJ at all timesor, <lptionally, pinned t,> your.,hire (which indicme, chat chc w1:11pon i ,lung over your h,)uldcr).
Sotm weapon, have ,pecml abilities, ,uch as causing extra levcb of damage or affcctini:: more than one targt•t. lf a we,1pon ha, thb sort ,)fability, che cx:ict detailsof how n funcuon will be wmten on the weapon card.
Bi ingTraitswithWeapons
If
angedComoat
If
- -  -onli\1on
as normal. Your cargec IS considered surprised for Lhe first attack, and if he has no ranged weapon w1rh which to return fire, he is considered "surpri ed" for as long as you can attack him wirhour facing res1scance. In other words, until you can close the distance to your as ilant and attack hand-co-hand, if you win a challenge, your
attacker will rake no damage. If he's blazing away with a semi-automaticfrom a roof­ top across the way, odds are your 5word isn'l going ro help you much.
If your tar)?et is aware of you before you make your inittal ranged attack and has a ranged weapon of h1, own, he is not considered surprised for your fin;t attack. He may shoot back righr away, and your challenges are resolved as stated below.
After your firsc shot i5 fired (the firsr challenge is resolved), your target cnay
:mempt to return fire (assuming he 1sarmed).The loser of a frrefight challenge (o:,c, a Health Levd
If the defender is unarmed, he may declare h1, victory condition as escape (pro­
viding he is noc cornered). If the defender wins the challenge, the acrncker is still unharmL-<l, but hlli target has hidden from view and must be searched out before the
atrack can be pressed. In instances such as chis, a new challenge cannot be made for at lease ft\'e minutes.
fighting with hand-w-hand weaix,ns - cluh,, knh·e, or swords - requ1rei. combatants be wichm m1ch of each orher. Fighting w1ch ranged weapons allows 1bacann, to stanJ apart; participants can therefore "<live for cover." When you tlve each ranged combat challenge, if it is applicable you can present one Tra11 of

:r to acid co your total number of Traits. These cover Traits mar not be used for ing, but theydo add to your coral tfTraits are compared. This covercan cake the  1 of whatever obstacles are around and within reach of you (you shoulJn't actu­ dive for them -  remember the No Running rule). A Narrator might be required
decide what cover can he found in rhe vicinity, hut if the combatant:, know the
theycan agree upon what cover isavailahlc. In some instancei., there may l,e no
:r arow1J, leavinga combatant m the open with only his own Jefensive Trait,. Ifcover isextensive,such as the brick wall of a relic warehouse, pcrhapi. tt  may
worth more than one Trait's worth of cover. The number tlfTraits available for
is left for challenger, to agree, or fora Narrator to decree. Hiding behind a car,
·example, might be worth twocover Traits, while hidmg behinJ a thin wall might [y count asone. If one combatant goescompletely to ground - he cannot be seen all anJ is thoroughly protected -  he isconsiJered impossible co hit.11,e attacker
change his position 1n order to gee another clear shot.
Wraiths also have the ability to go Incorporeal, which can greatly change the 1y a firefight is played our. If there is SkmlanJ cover around for a wraith to hide 1d, she can  use thar to heradvantage. If she is willing to lose a Corpus Level and Incorporeal, 5he can poke her head and weapon hanJ through the wait while
,ing muse of  her Corpus in relative safety. This sore of cover aJds another Trait comparison purposes, though thar Trait cannot be used for bidJing.
: -¥-.--s--ig:gcz l'!"f ... --- =-=-
olivion.-
Basic WraithAbilities
eingone of the Restless Dead docs have it aJvantages. ll1oui:h life may have fled, certain abilities den1eJ mortab are gr- nted to chose whowalk on the other sideof theShroud.Theseahili­ ues that all wraiths possess are:
Deathsight - Wraiths see the taint of death and Oblivion e,·erywhere they look. Oblivion's influence color:, everything in the Shadowlands; a new building shows sii:ns of filth and mild disrerair, statues appear chipped and crumhling,
and people who are close ro death have a corpseltke pallor. Wraiths can use this
ability to gain insight into an object's weak points or a living per-on's general health. A Static Menral Challenge will indicate how healthy or sturdy a person or object is to a wraith using this power.
Lifesight - Wraiths are also able to see the auras of living (and certain unliving) things. This ability, when exercised properly, allows a wraith rn gauge rhc mood, idenmy and level of hosriliry of the owner of rhe aura heing observed. By winning a Static Meneal Challenge with a difficulry equal to the target's number of
Mcneal Traits, you may demand chat the target answer one of the following -om of questions honestly: "What is your Demeanor?'', "What is your current emononal state (brief summary)?", "Was the last thing you said a lie?", or"What sort of creature are you?" (human, Kindred, Garou, mage, spirit, faerie, mummy, etc.). ll1is abil1ty cannot be used consecutively on the same target.

Sharpened Senses -Allwraiths are hypersensitive to sensory input. A wraith can hear a whisrer a block away or read a license plate off a speeding car with t:a c. At Narrator discretion, a wrairh can make a Static Mental Challenge to pick upa visual, aural or olfactory detail that might otherwise have been missed. However, the drawback to thisabiliry is that loud noises or bright lights can srnrde or daze wraiths temporarily, so chat if the Static Challenge is failed, the wra1rh is considered to be stunned by the overload. A stunned wraith will be unable to move or act for the nl.'XI minute, though she will remain Corporeal unless damaged.
S nlands andSnroud
mt of the time, wraiths will interact with each othl•r. As long as the wraiths whoare dealing witheach other arc on chesame plane of existence (1.e., both in Srygia, both in rhe Tempe,r, both in the Shadowlands, ere.), mccraccions rake place;1s n,,r• ma!. Even 1f a wraith is dealing with a visitor to  the Under· world,such as a very lost Garou or mage, things proccl.'d more
or less smoothly as long as everyone mvolvcJ 1s on  rhe same siJc of theShroud.
However, wraiths sometimes need to deal with things m the SkinlanJs. A, the
lands of the living are separated from the Deadlands by a mcmhrnnc of foar and hat.: called the Shroud, chi:. can be problemanc. Reaching through lei-els of  reahrr is far more difficult than rcachmg across a table, after all.
160
(na terfive:  ule
Depending upon surroundings and circumstance, the Shroud m a given area can havea rating from 4 to 10. The creepier and more eene the setting, the lower the ShrouJ. A deserted mansion at midnight will have a much lower Shroud rating than a w,eJ car Im on a sunny afternoon. The local Shroud rating is the difficulty of the Static Mental Challenge chat a wraith must succeed at before directlyaffecting some­ one or wmechmg in the Skinlands with an Arcanos. This affects certain Arcanoi, such as Outrage and Pandemonium, far more than others like Argos and Castigate. The difficulty of the Static Challenge can be affected by a variety of factors. If the wraith a,;attempting to affectone of her Fettersdirectly,she gainsan automatic retest,and theTrait risked in the first test is not lost. If the second test is failed, then the lrait is lost
If the desired effect is in the vicinity of a wraith's Fetters, if she loses the first test, she loses the Mental Trait but can immediately retest.Wraiths who are actempt­ ini: to operate across the Shroud somewhere ocher than near their Fetters do not have the opuon of retesting for five minutes.
Additionally, if a wraith is in a Haunt, she automatically gains a Mental Trait (which can be bid for purposes of crossing the Shroud). Haunts and the localShroud raring of in-game common areasshould be posted prominently. Otherwise, the local Shroud rating always defaults to an 8.
Once the initialsuccess m the challenge has been made, repeated tests need not be made for the duration of the scene. The wraith is considered to have penetrated the Shroud ufficiently not to need to becontinually pokingand prodding at it.

Embodied wraiths need not make this additional challenge to use Arcanoi or otherwbe affect the Skmlands, as they are already across the Shroud.
I eTempest
he Tempest is primarily a travel realm in most games ofOblivion. Traveling through the Tempest takes less time that moving through the Shadowlands, though it can be far more danger­ ous. There are safe routes and shortcuts through the endlc:ss storm, but there isalso the possibility of Spectre attack, not to menuon simply getting lost.
161
o livion
Travel OverShort Distances
A g d,at thewraith leadinga C.rcle through the Tempest ha, suffic1ent Argos. tra,·d , ver short J1,rances 15 ,nnple. (For ruk, oncrossing into and ouc of the Tempes1, e Argos in Chapter Four.) Wr.uths whoarc tr.weImg through the Tcmpc t simply make the hand signal for ,uch travel - hands cla,ped bchmJ the head - and move to their JL-,,rination. When theydecide ro rop out of d1cTemper in:iccordance with the rub of A!'R(.,,,, they simply drop the s1i:n.
Wraith, m the TempeM can'r seeout into rhcShadowlands, and player, moving through the storm should bear this m mind Likewise, wraiths in the ShadowlanJ, cannnt ee into the Tempc,t without the Arg,is ability Tcmpescpeek.
Wraiths can obtain surpri,e by popping out of rhc Tempest at opportune mo­ ments. Howe\'er, where they end up can bl·something of a crapshoot....
long Distance Voyages
Tra,·ef'mg long dhtance.- m rhe Tempc,r 1s m enrirely different matter man
,nnply hopping a few hundred icet. While mosr Oblivion games will take place in a relatively limited geographic area (i.e., rhe fielJ of play will be a single ciry\ Ne,ropol1s) anJ thu, have no need for lnng di,tance travel, there will be the occa•
,1on:1l wraim wbhin to journe) to Sryg1a or beyond.
Wraiths w1,hmg to "Oj,,urn an extensive distance m the TempcM must make a
St,\CK Menral Ch,1llcnge once in the storm ttl locate a Byway. If they succeed, they
:'Ire .-in a relauvely ,:1fe path to rheir Jesrmation, and should he caken out of play by the Narrator for a lengm of time corresponding to me Juration of the trip. Durinl! this rime, me traveling character is considen:d to be safe on a Ferryman,pacwll!!d Byway, unless ihe Surryreller sp.:cifically wishe.1 w create an in-game Byway 1etting for incidences like Spccrr<' att,1cks, Byway rohbcries, etc.
Ifa wraith cannot locate a Byway, rhen ,he is considered co be lo,t in the Tern· pc,t. Ryexpending a point of Path .shecanrcte,r anJ at remrt to find a Byway, hut on<:e the Pathos is gone, he will simply find herself floating in me Tcmpe,r until either a Harbinger or a Spectre comes along.
Wr:uths with Ant0s can nangate the Tempest without the aid of a Byway. B • ucce.:Jmg on II Simple Test, Harbingers can fmd wraiths who are lost m rhe Tenv
pest. Harbingers can also travel from point co pomt within the Tempest in half the rime chat nom1al wraiths can.
Maelstroms
Mosr of the time, wraiths dive into the Tempest. Sometimes, however, the Tem­ pest comes crawling out after wraiths. These storms are called Maelstroms, and any ll'ra1th caught out in one is in trouble indeed. For every minute a wraith is caught nuc ide in a Maebtrom, he must make a Static Physical Challenge or lose a Corpus Level. Furthermore, Spectres ride the winds of Maelstroms, and may attack wraiths stranded outside.

163
i·;;s,,.,	,,;,
..;-· •-;
--? •
olivion
1
10 minutes before a Maelstrom breaks, any wraith ourside can make a Sraric Mental Challenge ro see if she notices the comingstorm. Many Necropoli also have early warning systems set up, but knowing that a Maelstrom is comingand being able ro reach shelter in rime are two very different things.
Experience
I've seen coo much I've heard enough...
A lit[le innocence always seems wgo 'long the way
-  Cock Robin, "A Little lnnocence"
s time passes, people (living or dead) grow and learn. They acquire new skills, talentsand knowledge. To reflect that, char­ acters in Oblivion receive Experience Traits as they soiourn through rhe afterlife. The more theysee and do, the more they know and know how to do, and Experience Traits reflect this.
While Experience Traits themselves do nothing, theycan be traded in for other, more useful characteristics. A sufficient number of Experience Tra1rs can be swapped for new Pas.ion,,
Fetters, Pathos, Willpower, Traits, Abilities and even Arcanoi. When you wanr to swap Experience Traitsforsomerhmgelse,simply inform your Storyteller what you're buying and how much Expenence you're cashing in.
Cnapterri\'e: ules
Different characteristicscost different amounts of Expenence.
New Attribute Trait -  One experience point per Trait.
New Abiliry - One experience point per Ability Trait.
New Arcanos - Two experience point5 for Innate Abilities, four for Basic Arcanoi, six for Intermediate Arcanoi and nine for Advanced Arcanoi. Bemg ap­ prenticed within a Guild (see Guild Status, p. l37) reduces the cost by one for all Arcanos levels except Innate Abilities.
New Willpower -  Three experience points per Trait.
Buy off Negative Trait - Two experience points per Trait.
New Background - One expenence point per Influence Trait, with Story­ teller approval.
Pathos - Two Traits per experience point.
GettingExperience
Characters gain one Experience Trait at the end of each game. In addition, Storytellers have the option of handing out additional Experience to players as well for exceptional roleplaying. Players should always gain at least one Experience Trait unless they really, truly, vehemently prove that they do not deserve it (say, byspend­ ing the entire game playing a Spectre who says nothing but, "&rk! l½,rk! &rkl"). Otherwise, participation is enough ro grant some Experience.
(na ter ix: neliaaow
ill
chapterSix:
The shadow
Snadowguiding
Present yet elusive
Pass11:e yet ahusit1e
Tearing om thehean in utter silence
-  Peter Himmelman, "Impermanent Things"
hadowguiding is an essenrial part of any game of Oblivion, for the Shadowgu1de serves to express the dark urges of a wraith's lower self- thevoice inside his head trying to lead che wraith into the Void. The Shadow is violent and selfish, cunning and cowardly - the ultimate combination of the office snitch and the schoolyard bully. It can be quieted but never sulleJ, and occasionally it can even take over. In that instance, called Ca­ tharsis, the wraith's true personality issuddenly shunted to the
back of hi:.own mind, 1mpnsoneJ as the Shadow controls their shared body.
E.1ch player, Junngch:iraccer creation, will generatea Shadowsheetderailing all of

herShadow's
abour her Shadow's habitsand hi.story.llliscanlshould he kept handy at all timesdurin!! Pmeplay, a:; the player will need the card co keep rmck of her Temporary Angst Traits. Funhermnre, rhere is rhe possibility of a ShaJowguide appearing on the scene and rc­ Qlltsring rht:Shadow sheet;i;uch requests cannot be refused.
Yi\\
_,_ -	-- -	l-·
oolivion
■
In Oblivion,Shadowguiding is che responsib1liryof Narrators. Each player haa sheet detailing her Shadow's Archerype, Thorns, Dark Passions and Angst (Perma­ nent and Temporary). Narrators on Shadow dury simply wander the game, findmg wraiths whom they think are due for some attention from their dark side. Whena suitable wraith 1s found, the Narrator taps her on the shoulder and asks her to hand over her Shadow sheet temporarily. Narrato canconcentrate on one wraith, or can take the part of the Shadows of an entire group.
While Shadowguiding, a Narrator should generally whisper in the ear of the wraith she 1s tormenting. No one can hear the Shadow's words except the wraith, so none of the other players should hear them as well. A Shadowguide should never touch the wraith she'sdealing with, norshould she addrei;s any ocher players directly, bur she can interrupt gameplay to announce the effect of a Thorn.
shadowguiding Do'sand Don'ts
Avoid annoying the player whose Shadow you control. Shadow the charac­ ter, not the player.
Choose your opportunities for temptation carefully. Rather than broadsidmg players with general enticements, find out what makes chem tick and exploit chose weaknesses at appropriate times.
Don't focus your Shadowguiding too much on one character. There are a lot of wraiths itching for temptation out there; if you spend coo much time on one, his player is going to feel persecuted.
Embarrassing another player is not fun for anyone. Try to avoid abusing your power as Shadowguide ro cause discomfort to the player.
Find out if the player whose Shadow you control has a problem dealing with certain topics or phobias, and avoid those when you are acting as Shadowguide. Do nor spoil the game for another player.
Keep in mind that the Shadow you are playing isa small pan of a largergame, and
try co keep your actions directed to increasing the drama and enjoyment of the game.
Remember that the player of a wraith's Psyche controls her character regard· less of whether or not the Psyche or the Shadow is dominant. Do not attempt to play someone else's character iusr because you are playing her Shadow.
Try co make your Shadow's words and actions enterraining as well as effecuve. Others are watching what you do.
-		C a ter)ix:1l1e)liadow
psychic Torment
The Shadow has only one long-term goal - to be united with Oblivion - but there's the little macrer of the wraith's dominant personalit, and how to deal with that. While the Shadow mayseem helpful on occasion, its ultimate goal never wavers. However, there are a variety of stratagems that Shadows will employ (from offering helpand then withdrawing it at crucial momenrs, to promising quiet in exchange for cemun actions, to all-out 24/7 war), and not every Shadow wants to get the battle over with quickly. After all, ic can be so much more fun to take years to achieve corruption artistically, cosend all of the wraiths' friendsscreaming to the Void first.... With chat in mind, Shadow behavior can realistically be seen to run the gamut. However, with the Shadow, there's always a knife behind the smile.

Angst
Stand back, get back
She'U painc your blue skies black
-Simple Mimis, "She's A River"
Angst represents the degree of pain and isolation a wraith feels, and it also represents the strength of a wraith's Shadow. Angst comes in two varieties: Tempo• rary and Permanent. Permanent Angst is the hold that the Shadow has gamed on the wraith'ssoul, while Temporary is merely a measure of how much negative energy and emotion tbe wraith has at the moment. Permanent Angst changes slowly and always increases; Temporary Angst goes up and down dunng the course of gameplay.
If a Shadow gains 10 Temporary Angst Traits in an evening, it has the option of tradmg them m for either one permanent Angst Trait or a scene of Catharsis (see below). If a wraith's Permanent Angst Traits ever reach 10, she has given in perma­ nently to her Shadow and succumbed co Oblivion. Such wraiths may become Spec­ tres, but they must vanish into the Tempest for the period of transformation.
olivion
Ii
GainingAngst
There are several ways the Shadow can gain Angsc:
Dark Passions - lf a Shadow is able to manipulate the Psyche or ocher wraiths intoexpressing one of ics Dark Passions, it can call for a Simple Tesc. If cheShadow wms, a pointofTempomry Angst isacquired. A tie indicates a retest until one sideor the ocher actually wins. This method is only pertinent if the Shadow is actually being guided. Otherwise, AngsL can only be gained from Dark Passions during Catharsis. This isdone in the same manner in which a wraith gains Pathos from her regular Passions.
Arcanoi -  Some Arcanoi give the Shadow Temporary Angst pomts even j(
the Psyche is dominant.
Note: If the Shadow is dominant and uses an Arcanos rhar normally gives the Psyche TempoTary Angst, that Angst is lost instead.
Roleplaying- If a player docs an excellent jobat Cathams, a Storyteller can (with player permission) give the Shadow a point of Temporary Angst. Such supe­ rior roleplaying should also be rewarded wich extra Experience.
losing Angst
There are several ways the Shadow can lose Angst:
Castigation - This Arcanos isdesigned co weaken the power a Shadow holds over a wraith by reducing the wraith's Angst. Unless a wraith 1s using the advanced level of Castigate, Defiance, he cannot Castigate himself.
Arcanoi- When the Psyche isdominant, some Arcanoi give a wraith Angst. If the Shadow is dominant, these Arcanoi reduce the Shadow's Angst instead. This does not, however, mean that Pathos or Willpower is gained when the Shadow uses those Arcano1. Only Angst is affected in this manner.
Failing any test - TheShadow cannot stand to see its own failure. For every two tests lost during Catharsis, the Shadow loses one point of Temporary Angst
There is no way known to rnduce Pennanent Angst. BochTemporaryand Pennanenr Angst should be cracked on the Shadow sheet, and it is viral that this be kept current.
Dark passions
Shadows cannot understand the "higher" emotions like love, hope and joy. Jn­ stead, the Shadow only understands the "baser" emotions like hate and anger. Anger and hate can aaso be a Psyche's P.!Sliions, but the Shadow's flavors of rage and loath­ ing tend to be more vicious and less honest.

With this in mind, Shadows have Dark Passions which, when they are in con­ trol, they can fulfill to gain Angst. When a Shadowguide is present, the Shadow can also manipulate his Psyche inco invoking base emotions that feed his Dark Passions in others, as well. Dark Passions for the Shadow are chosen in the same way char Passions are picked for the wraith, and they are phrased in the same way. Sample Dark Passions 111clude:
Hate: Destroy other wraiths Betray a friend to the Hierarchy Bum dowo the city
170
(napter ix:1nenactow
Fear: Hide from all Shadowlands involvement Declare a love that you couldn't before
Help your true love find someone else
Greed: Steal all of your friends' relics Tum wraiths over to the forges for coin
Destroy treasures of the living to make them relics
Lust: Get cheap, violent thrills from the living Manipulate the Quick to satisfy your voyeurism
Jealousy: Prevent your successor from surpassing your achievcment.5 Kill your lover's new flame
Bring down all wraiths of higher Srarus
Despair: Get ochers co fall to Oblivion
Convince other wraiths to give up their struggle against the other factions Talk the Quick into committing suicide
Self-Loathing: Drive yourself intoa Harrowing
Self-flagellate in public
Drive away your friends and loved ones
In any scene where a Shadow or Shadowguided wraith evokes a negative emo­ rion in someone else, the player makes an Extended Simple Test co see if her baser side can sympathize with the emotions of those around her. Only a win in a Simple Te,t will feed the Shadow Angst, though each win gives rhe Shadow another Trait. If a Narrator is present, she must approve the Angst gain by verifying the sincerity of
the emotion felt or invoked. If no Narrator is present, the consent of all players present is necessary for a rest against a Dark Passion.
Drawing Angst from inchoate negativity doesn't always work, an<l it helps if something is focusing the less pleasant emotions. When a wraith {usually in Cathar­ sis, bur also when beingShadowguided) is directly involved in following the dicrates ofh1s Dark Passion, his dark side can gam strength rapidly. In cases where the wmith 1s literally pursuing one of her Dark Passions {in the judgment of a Narrator), an Extended Simple Test allow, the wraith to continue to retest and gam Angst if she ties at any point. Note that continuing co test for Angst is not optional.
Dark Passions, unlike Passions, <lo nor fade if ignored. Dark Pa 1ons can never be Numbed, and cannot lie removed by any means.
Catharsis
henever a Shadow's Temporary Angst reaches 10 points, the
Shadow can attempt to take over the wraith. This 1s called Catharsis. By expending five of its Temporary Angi;t points,
:31 the  wraith's Shadow takes control of their shared Corpus and
·• imprisons the Psyche in a uny comer of its mind. For all in­ tenr.and purpose . the Shadow is the wrnich at that point, and 1t peersout at the world through Oblivion-tintedglasses. How­ ever, the wraith's player still plays her character, even when

--
Oolivion
Shadow-ridden. To the wraith's friends, she will probably appear no different than she did before, and they will probably not know that she is in Catharsis. This allows the Shadow ro do all sorts of vicious things: start rumors, mc1te feuds between Circlemates, plan and carry out actsof treachery, let Spectres m the backdoor, drop favorite relics down Nihils, and generally cut loose with pure malice.
When the Shadow is dominant, it interacts with the world the only way it knows how. It makes useof the Psyche'sArcanoi,gains moreTemporary Angst through irs Dark Passions, and usesany of the Thoms it possesses. It cannot cause the Psyche co regain Pathos, nor can it reduce a character's Pathos or Willpower Traits below J. Usually Catharsis is a threat that the Shadow uses to get its way from time to time. When a Shadow takes control, it can choose to "cut off" a Psyche from his senses, thereby allowing the Shadow perform acts in secret that can later come back to haunt the character.
Catharsis lasts for a single scene or half an hour, whichever comes first. Players are not permitted to end scenesartificially (say, byscurrying out of the room into the hallway for 30 seconds, then returning) just to end Catharsis.
Snadow Bids
heShadow can sometimes help the Psyche out, for 1cs own in· imitable reasons. Sometimes it's to lull the wraith intoa false sense of security, sometimes it's to get the wraith hooked on help that will be pulled away at the last minute, sometimes it's just plain perversity. In any case, there will be times when the Shadow will offer its assi.stance. These moments are marked by Shadow Bids.
To make a Shadow Bid, a player substitutes a Temporary Angst Trait for the Trait chat ought to be bid at the beginning of any challenge or rest. If the wraith loses, the Temporary Angst Trait is lost and the wraith cannot Shadow Bid for an, ocher two hours. lf the wraith wins or ties, he gains an additional Temporary Angst Trait.
Shadowcharacteristics
hadowsare built just ascharacters are, with characteristia.and Traits. Here are explanations of what those characterisncsare, as well as expanded definitions of what some of chem are.The Shadow, unlike the Psyche, is only a partial personahey; hence it has fewer characteristics. Some have already been derailed: Angsr and Dark Passions. Others, including the Shadow Ar­ cherype and Thorns, are below.
Archetypes
Just as each wraith has a face she shows to the world, eachShadow does as well. The Shadow's Archetype combines Nature and Demeanor, as the Shadow has so little chance to demonstrate a false face to the rest of the Underworld. A Shadow's Archerype is at rhe same time its personality and it.'i plan of attack, its way ofdealing with and destroying the Psyche.
There isno rulesapplication for a Shadow Archetype outside of a Harrowing. It merely exists as a roleplaying aid and a way to draw a more complete picture of who your wraith is.
Shadow Archerypes include:

The Abuser - Hurt terribly once, this1mpacienr and jealous Shadow exists to inflict his pain on ochers. He scrutinizes the failures of everyone around him, heapingscorn upon them whenever he can.This is done partially in order to bolster hisself-image, but primarily co make everyone else hurt just as much as he does. The Abuser will often goad you to attempt the impossible, just to watch you fail so that he can dine upon the self-loathing failure engenders. Chaoticand crazed, che Abuser will lash out at any target other than his favorite one: himself.
When dominant, the Abuser will spew his vitriol in all directions. Any excuse will set him off, and if no excuse is provllled, he will create one. Demands for obedi­ ence, absurd requests and systematic verbal or physical abuse are thisShadow's hall­ marks.
The Director - Quiet and organized, che Director will take you apart with clockwork precision. Icy in her hatred, she will strip your defensei; away layer by layer, taking pleasure m the surgical nature of the torment she inflicts. There's noth• tng personal in what the Director does; she's just setting the record straight by re• moving any delusions you might have about goodness, sanity or any other worth• while qualities you thought you had. When your graspon reality stares to falter, the Director knows just how much pressure to apply m order to push you over.
When m control, rhe Director likes to lay long-range plans for the next time she is dominant, and to prepare nasty lmle revelauons for you to discover at care­ fully timed intervals.She also enjoys picking apart your companions, makingcutting observations chat will poison any friendships you had made on the other side. The fact that the Director is usually quire accurate doesn't help matters, either.
The Freak - Everythmg that you ever were ashamed of wanting to do is what the Freak lives for. Gleefully perverse, the Freak is an expression of pure self-
ooliion
ham.-,1. Ir revel in caking each of your 1mperfeccium and holding it up co the light,
:,,1 that it can be riJ1culcJ by the re,t vf the world. Anything you're ashamed of Jumg, the Freak will encourage you to d11, and the more you resi,1 the m,,re insistent he'll become Once you give in, though, he'll turn around and point out how per. vertt.'li you arc Shame and nbandon are the Freak\ favorite weapom, and he use, them a, often as he can.
A Freak in control is a frightening rhing. He'll cake your darkest desires and play them out for the rest of the world, leaving you coexplain your action, when his control fade,. Of course, excavating other:;' dirty little \Ccreb isalmost as muchfun a, far a5 the Freak 1s concerned.	'
The Leech - Wearing on the will and nerves likesandpaper, the Leech gees it, way through whming and cajolmg, be!tl(mg and throwm11 tantrum, It's a black hole for auenuonandaffccmm, and no matter howoften you give in to its demand,, it's never enough. Childish and selfah, the Leech can never be satisfied, and every tnne you give it what it wants, it's that much harder cosay no the next time.

When the Leech rakes control, 1c attempts to work 1t wile, on others in order to extract whatever sustenance theyoffer. If permmed, tt will dram every,me around icdry, thendiscard che husks and set ouc co look for new victims. As far as the Leech is concerned, evcrythmg ochers have and more 1, JUSt its rightful due.
The Martyr - Noble self-sacrificehas its place, but what the Martyr offers is a sh:illow mockery instead. By constantly demandmg chac you give of your,elf be­ cause you can take the pam better than anyone else can, the Martyr cheapens your
faith and mdulge, your arrn,::ance. Claiming your sacrifice will bring about a greater good, the Martyr will then cake pleasure m demomrrating char your pam JiJn't do anything at all, and that all uf your suffering wa poindess. Sul!, chat won't keep it from urging you to give up yourself for others every chance 1t gees.
\Vhen the Man T rakes control, 1t will attempt to maneuver you into ,1tuanons where, no matter what, in order to escape you'll have to give up ,;omething impor• tant.The Martyralso trie:; to arrange for witnesses whenever possible, so thar its very puhltc sacrifice:, can be used to shame ochers intos1m1larly e1f.Jesrrucrive acts.
The Monster - Brutally direct, the Monster 1s all about pain ,md greed. Wharcver it want,, 1t will command you to rake. Whatever 1t hate,, it will Jemand that you destroy. If you refuse, 1c will try to destroy you as well, for11 cannot ,tand to
be balked in any \\"Jy. There', no compromise or suhtlery in the Monster, anJ ofren
it's the most dignified and dcl1c.1te wraiths who have a Monster lurkmg lschmd their eyes.
To see the Monster dommanc is to ,cc a foreshadowing of Spcctrehood. It will lay waste to anything in its path, taking what it wantsand destroying eve() thingel;e out of. heer spice Gurrural and vulgar, the Monster rarely has anything m S.<tY chat 1sn't an obscenity.
The Parent - No one else can love you as much, or ns well, as che PMenc. No one else can take care of you as well, or make you as happy. The Parent e\·en accepts oll of your little 1mperfecttom, which she'll harp on endlessly in order to prove w you that she loves you despite your nearly infinite flaws. She'll prmect you from ps;orle whodon't ha\·e your be5t interesrsac he:1rt, and only she can d'-'c1Jc who cho>t.• are ( ually, it's everyone else you know).
(hapter ix:1nenaow
Wlwn in commanJ, the Parent will ,eek to m,ulatl' y,,u from ,my corrupting ,,r inl!erou, influence, (i.e., 11nyone anJ anything ebe) Toaccomplish this, it will d,> anJ ar anything to alienate those whn care,1bouc you, u,mg the fan ch:n the\'could
be Jri\'en <•ff as pro 1f chac they weren't really your fricn,b, anyway.
The Perfectionist Nochmg you do will evl'r be goci<l enough for rhc Per- feeuonisc Any1mperfe,nnn can erve  launching point fora drade; any flaw will be a magnet for witheringsar..:.bm. By playing up your ine\'itable error;, the l'erf,·c• rioni,t impirc, p,urself-hatred and 1'5 y,lurconfidence in yourown11h1latie,. TI1cn, once your confiJence 1s ,hoc, he'll be more than happy to seer in nnd ,how you ho11· to do thing, right. If y,>u had any sen,c at all, you'd turn thing, over 1n him permd­ nently anJ make sure that C\'erythmg 1,:m Jone properly the fir,c time.

\'t'hen in control, thc Perfectionist will take every ex,1mple co,ntic1::e whatever or whoever cm:he.s his eye. He'll also take rhe opportunuy co embroil you in imp<l:-,il,lc scenan(,s, anxiously awamng your ineviuble failure. Still, at least h,•.dnc,n't play favor• ires,\'t'hcn everyone around him isequally flawed, nne turgct's as g,-,oJ a, the nex1.
The Pusher - The Pusher will always beglaJ to helpyou,1chic\'e the 1mpos• 1ible. He \\',tnrs you co chink o(him a, a triend, a friend you can alw,1y, ask ior help. Ofcourse, the price for the Pusher's helpisalways to<> high, and if you Jon't pay, he'll extract it with interest. Every so ,.,ftcn when you're counting on him, he'll decide that you need to apprec1ace him  more, and he'll withhold that surport you were counting on <o dl>speratelr
When the Pu:,her 1s in charge, he'll do everything he can to put you m sm1ati,ms where you'll ne1...J his help to c.scape.The 4u1cker he cm make you mck up'l debt to him, the happier he i,. Then again, an unhappy Pu.sher can Ix: unplea.<.·uu mdecd..
The Rationalist - The Rati!lnal1sc will give you all of the right rea,-.1n, for all ,,f the wrong de..isi,ms. Calmly leaJing you down the parh to Oblavmn, 1r offcl"' ra11onale and cxplan::iuons for why you ,hould do whnt it ays. It offer:. proofa for the
wisdom of
dominant, the Rationalist sabotage your
it will systematically
nosense m rnking on ••s 11mc giving in co Oblivion, b there, 11hcn ic's a surcd of
winnin in the end!Tiw Rationalist is Jtist making the ,urrenJcr more efficiem.
oms
Thoms or by ,pending
own Expcm,n, Traii- One-Point Thoms
purchase Thorns, if she
Spectre Prestige	The Shadow is respected hy 5pectrcs anJ they will wme tO
the aid o( the \\'raith Jurmi: Catha"'i,.
Tainted Relic when 11 is
parry mii:ht
destroyed ,,r u,cd up, 11
nant. Taintt.-d relics ,houlJ be handcJ out by Sroryrdlcr- at chara.:ter creanon.
ol1livion
Two-Point Thorns
Shadow Trai - You can buy oneTrait, either an Attribute <>ran Ability, that
the Shadow posse,sc.,. If rhc wraith wants to use the Trai1 in a tc:.t, he can ch<X">C10 doso, but u g1\'CS the Shadow one romtofTcmpor:iry Ang,t,Thi,Trait1s never uscJ
up and alwal, give. the Shadow one Tempt>rary Ang:.t Trnit.
Aura of Corruption - There ,sa subtle taint to the wraith,caused by theSha<l,,w's influence. If 1 wraith has th" Thom, all Soc1:1I Ch.1ll,mge:, arc1'id at• I Traits.
Three-Point Thorns
Trick of theLight-Thi:. isa very, verysubtle Thom as itcanairer the rerceptions of the wraith in accordance with me Shadow's wbhe:. If me Shadow ,rend:.a Tempon,ry Ang,t point and activmes thi:.Thom, the Sh.1dowgu1<lc can describe to the player wh.1t subtle alter:mons m the semng me wra1m scn.-.e:.. Darlc area, can ,-c,:m to  hold fii:ures, faces c,10 seem more menacing, red glows can appear, and SUltpicious movements can he hidden hy the effectlt of thisThom The change m perception la..<ei; five minute:..
Bad Luck - The Shadow can spen,I a Temporary Ang,t point co cause the Psyche to enter a test, makmg the previous results of the cest to he discarded.

Five-Point Thorns
Freudian Slip - By spending a Temporary Ang,1 point, the Shadow can caUlte the chara..:rcr to takea suddeninv<,lunrary action or blunoutasinglesentenceof thi.:Shadow's chOOllmg. However, che Freudian Sltp cannot cause che wraith to use imy Arrnnrn. This Thom can only be re.1steJ by the expenditure of a Willpower Tran.
Shadow Life- TheShadow lh·esa paralid hfo. Whenever rhecharacterSlumbers, the Shadow take:.overand am w1thouc me player's knowledge. Thiscm lead tosome interesting
,iruatioru for the PS)·chc if che Shadow wrong, or auach people. The wr:um rill geci. the benefit of chcSlumber, however. A wraithcurrently living hisSh.1dow Lifeshould heconsid­ ered 10 be inan exrendt..J Cat:h1Ns, and all An1,N gainsand lo--so,hould be treatt.-d ,..,,such.
Devil's Dare- At me bcgmnmg of che game, the Shadow can write down a Jarc and h.1nd it tll the P,yche. This cos the ShaJ<)W five Temporary Ang:,t Tra1r . but the re.suit cm beworm it. If me wraith fails to complete me dare by me end of theJ.r:ime, d1c Shadow gainsa point of Pcnnanem Angst. Dares mlllit he reasonnble; there isa world of difference berwt.>en "Jump en a Nihtl'' and "Go moon the An.1croon nnd it down unril his guard:.:;kcwer you." An unrt.'3SOnable dare co,, the Ang,,c but h,t no compulsory effect,;1 Narrator is d,c final arbiter of which ll1res are accepr.ihle.
Harrowings
Come feel the magic of che Shatlowplay
-  Fish, "Shadowplay"
here comes a time when even wraiths can't take any more. A Pa s,on has fadt.-d, a Fetter ha:; died or been destroyed, or chc wraith her..elfhas been stripped ofall of her Corpu:; Lcveb. At rhis pomr,a Nihil forms directly undemcath her,andshedrn mco the Labyrinth for the mi:hrmamh experience of a Har· rowing. In terms of gameplay, rhe wm1rh 1mmediacely sign:ib that she\ out of pl:iy md head:. for the room that the Swry• teller has set aside as the L1byrinrh.
( a ter  i\: rl1e ha OII
1larrowings are a combination of improvisational theater, a psychothempi,t', office and a medieval torture chamber with the wraith as rhe main 1111raction in  :1II rhrec. Her Shadow direct> a cast and crew of Spectre, in creaung a scene char will horefullr permanently damage the wraith and drag her clo:-er to Oh11v1on. Norhing Issacred in 11 I!arrowing; nlJ memories, loves, hatrcdb, embarrassing moments, hiJ­ den fantasies and more arc Jragged our as tools. The more hammer hkiws thatc.1n hl' dealt again,c the Psyche in a Harrowing, the more damaged she will emerge from i1 (if emerge she Joes) anJ the mote easily ,he'll drop in111another H.muwing.
Mechanics
Every Oblivion game should have a ,pace (preferably a room) set a ide co.serve as 1he Labynnrh. Thisareashould be inaccessible to wraiths who:inc not unJergnmg Harrowings; the Tempest around the great maze is jusr too hea, ily infcsteJ with Spectres for anyone tosneak through intact. Inside this room is where all Harrowing, will cake place. The stuff of the Lab.,Tinth is infinitely plastic and malleable, and can wrve as any setting that the directing ShaJow can imal(ine.
When the Harrowing begins, che Narrator cakes the wraith's 5haJow sheer and confers for a minute w1rh the other actor.. on the scene. During this tame, the 1-Ltr• rowing should be mapped ouc as to serring, character.. and mosr importantly, e...:apC' condition.The escapeconJ1tion is the rolcplaymggoal that the wraith mu,t achi<'Vc.' in l,rder to unify her personaliry and get out of the Harmwmg. It must be somerhm..: related to rhe wraith anJ her Shadow, 11nd should be more compltcmed than JIM

•make the hard moral dec,smn, and you get out of here "Generally rhe wraith ,houlJ have no more than 10 minutes in order ro figure out the escape condition.
If rhe wn11th makes a serious and creative effort ro roleplay her way out of rhe Harrowing, :mJ comes acros:. an alcemare escapecond111on that the Namuor feels is acceptable, rhcn she can be considerL.J to have succeeJeJ at the Harrowmg. It is up to the Narrator what constitutes succe s nnJ failure in a Harrowing, and there is no ap(l<.--al or  mhcr arbiter o( thisdecision. If the wraith fails to  roleplay her way ,,ur of the Harrowing, she sull hasa chance roescape.
At this rime she and the Narrator engage in a Challenge -  Willpower Traits against five Trai . TheTrait bid cannot be lost. If the wraith wms, she leaves the Harrowing in triumph, If he  (o,e.s, she is considered ro have failed the Harrowmg with all of rhe attendant consequences.
Win orlose
If
Fetters (Narrator discretion which one- dusmay require consulting with thc Stu• ryteller) wich three Temporary Corpus TraltS and an added point of Pathos as a re• W-Jrd. If she fails, she lo..<.es a Permanenr Q,rpus Tr:iit and return, to a Ferrer with
three TempClrary Corpus. (( the wraith ha, no Fetters, then win or lo.sc she rerums to
a random	in
she wins, she gets a single Pathos and three Temporary Corpus Tr.ins; if,he lo,.-,,.,Ill also loses a Permanent Corpu Trait bur gains three Temporary nne .
-=
u,
_111
Oblivion
Destruction Harrowings
Harrowing is the term for a Harrowing where the target 1s down tu her last pomt of Permanent Corpus. If she lo es, she will dissipate into the Void. There is no difference between a Dcsrruction Harrowing and a regular Harrowing in Oblivion.
As the Narrator in charge of the Harrowing seesonly the Shadow sheet and nor rhe wraith's regular character sheer, she should have no way of knowing whethera Harrowing is DeHruction or ordinary. Leningslip that a Harrowing is Destruction in hopes that the Narrator will "go easy" is extraordinarily bad form, and should result in the instantaneous failure of the Harrowing. The character 1s destroyed, and the playershould create a new one, preferably with more common sense.
Failing a Destruction Harrowing results in the ,bvious: the character's destruc- tion.
justDoing it
When the Harrowing actually starts, the Narrator describes the scene and the other characters present. These other characters are Spectres, bur can he played by additional Narrators or players whose characters are currently out of play. Excessive detail is not required; just enough to set the scene is all that is needed.
Ar thi, point, the Harrowing begins as regulargameplay. All regular rulesapply, though the "reality" of the shared nightmare can sometimes warp in odd ways. How­ ever. wraiths can make challenges, use Arcano1, and otherwise interact normally with this lirrle pocket of unreality. Any Traits bid or used durmg a Harrowing, with the exception of Eidolon, are recovered at rhe Harrowing', end. For purposes of com­ bat within the Harrowmg, the wraith is considered to be at full Temporary Corpus. This is, of course, an 1llus1on, and will fade at the Harrowing's end.

It cannor be emphasized srronglr enough that the reality of the Harrowing is complete. The wrairh muse believe in what isgoing on and ace accordmgly, even i( the wraith's player 1s aware it is a Harrowing. It is
experience bonuses for roleplaying are earned.
Harrowing final challenge;;, but no
the escape condition, she has failed.
Samples
Rescue Me
lng the Harrowed wraith co rescue a loved one, usually from her hvmg
Cna ter ix:1ne)naaow
a Moliated Spectre, but on rareoccasions the actual wraith of the target's loved one) ineven greater danger. The best escape from this sort of Harrowing is for the wraith to accept chat she cannot win and, as difficult as 1t may be, ,he has ro accept fate. Other variations call for the wraith to sacrifice herself for the sakeof the hostage, bur rhis sort of Harrowing is not about triumph. It's abour acceptance.
Dead Day Afternoon - This sort of Harrowing takes the wraith back to his living days, and into the teeth of undeserved peril. The police wish to calk co the wraith, who finds himself fleeing in order to prove his innocence. Every action co facilitate that flight results in more and more illegal acts, mjuring1nnocenc bysrand, er.; and desrroymg property. This of course will convince the police of the wraith's guile. They w1II then step up che chase, and the wraith is forced to choose between escalacion himself or surrender and potential annihilataon.
The lesson here is that the wraith can't do everything himself, and chat by doing so he sometimes does more harm than good. Pocencial escape conditions in, elude either surrendenng ac che risk of destruction, or accepting fully rhe life of the outlaw and all it stands for.
I Have No Mouth and I Must Flee -  The wraith finds herself in che middle of a crowd of people, none of whom will speak co or otherwise interact with her. They will walk past, talk among themselves, laugh, cry and generally carry on with their laves without rhe slightest indication that they are aware of the wraith, ratio, nalize weird or physical effects she creates, and in essence, completely isolate her. Everywhere she goes it is the same; she is completely alone.
The lesson here is chat the wraith should learn chat in the end, her own self is enough and she should not relyon others. Ifshe accepts her owncompany and chooses not to attempt fruitless interaction any longer, instead of givmg up m frustration, she can be considered to have mumphed over chis sort of Harrowing.
Wilderness of Mirrors - The mirror is a favorite psychological image. A funhouse maze, where every pane shows either a distorted image of the Harrowed wraith or one of his enemies, can make for a powerful Harrowmg. Voices coming from everywhere and nowhere, a seemingly infinite supply of mockmg faces, reflec­ tions chat move when the wraith does not - all of these offer tremendous horrific potential.
Mirror-maze Harrowings can be resoh,ed ma variety of different ways. Noc rec­ ommended is the solution when the wraith simply smashes every mirror in sight. lnsread, he might choose to walk into the mirror and join with his disrorted image, gaining a measure of self-acceptance. Another option m1ghr be for che wrairh to find the center of the maze and rest there, dwelling at the heart of all of the images of his self and encompassing all of them. A chm.I idea could have the wraith following rhe trail of the most horribly distorted reflections, descending into the heart of his own darkness and escaping out the other side.

The Missing Hammer -  Try as they might, most Oblivion players will find it impossible nor co realize that they are in a Harrowing and alter their play sryle accordingly. With that in mind, the "missing hammer" technique often works well as a method of keeping players' attention thoroughly in-game.
With the knowledge that she is in a Harrowing, a wraith instantly scare as:;um­ ing the worse. What's more, she instantly stares looking for 1r. If disaster is nor 1mme•
diately forchcommg (thesetting ispleasant, the disguised Spectres are friendly, there's no immediate evidence of torture or ocher unpleasantness), the wraith will seek it 10 every innocent phrase and action, looking for what she feels to be the inevitable
hidden crap. Within a few short minutes, the wraith can make her own Hell, as che Spectres simply act politely and watch the wraith drive herself into a frenzy of para­ noia.
This sort of Harrowing can be difficult co pull off, and should only be used aas contrast to  morestandard psychodramas. The lesson to be learned here is that it is all nghc to accept good things when they come to you, and chat if you lookcoo hard for Hell you just might find it. Wraiths who can actually accept what's going on witha minimum of fuss (there's a difference between acceptance and blind naivete, after all) should be considered to have roleplayed their way from the Harrowing.
Darkness Rising - Through the use of the Dark Arcanos Contaminate, a Spectre can easily take the part of a wraith's Shadow. Bringing a character face to face with his own dark half, someone whocan match his every move and unveil his everysecret, can be extremely unsettling. If the ocher Spectres in the Harrowing are portraying twisted versions of the rest of the wraith's Circle, mockmg and mutating familiar marmerisms, the situationcan gee terrifying. How much of what the Shadow is revealing is being told to the characters and nor to ocher Spectres? How can a wraith defeat hisown darkside?This sort of Harrowingcan also bedoneforsuspense value, with the wraith and his Shadow trapped in a maze or on a desert island, en­ gaged in someson of contest. A variation on "The Most Dangerous Game"can work well, as can gruesome variations on tag.
Again, self-acceptance is a good key to chis kind of Harrowing. A wraith who can embrace his alter ego, no matter how loathsome it might be, and who can inte­ grate it into his own personality, should be able co escape this Harrowing. methods of escape could come from either defeating or escaping the Shadow. On the ocher hand, acceptance is not the same thing as surrender, and any wraith who sim­ ply gives in to his Shadow's blandishments should be considered to have failed rhe Harrowing (a test should still be allowed, but the difficulty should be adjusted up­ ward at Storyteller discretion).
Misplaced Childhood's End-Among themost terrifying things imaginable is innocence gone wrong. When the icons of childhood -  stuffed animals, friendly parental faces, familiar homesteads -  suddenly reveal menace, the impact can be devastating. Returning a wraith to a childhood setting, such as her room in her par• ents' house circa her seventh birthday, and then having evil crawl out of the wood­

work is an effective Harrowing technique. Finding horror in places of safety, and having the images the character most associates with safety taken away from her can really unsettle the underpinnings of a wraith's world. The Freudian parent-monster images can also come into play in thtS flavor of Harrowing; the father-monster is a particularly effective cool.
Conversely, the idea of the Harrowing (from the Spectral perspective) could be to get the wraith to sink back into her childhood, giving up the fight againstOblivion and surrendering. For a superb example of this sore of Harrowing, see the film Laby­ rinth, in particular the sequence when Sarah runs across the junkwoman.
Putting aside the things of childhood and accepting adult responsibilines is che way our of this type of Harrowing. A demonic teddy bear who'll rend his owner's
180
fli.-,h rather rhan let her go is in a way serving for thl· Jemands rhat chilJish thing, make of aJult minds, and how they must be pul a,1dc for any gwwrh rooccur.
After the War -  Harrowings can have elaborate settings, mcluding faux Maelstrom.\ This sort of Harrowing give the 1mprc,s1on char, rather than bemg pulled into a Harrowing, the wraith has instead been caught m rhc Sixth Great Maelstrom. Helpless, he'll watch as rhc 5pectral horde Jescend <>n Srygia (l>r his h1,me Necr<>poli!.), laying wa te to all. O.·,olation and rum will be the ruleof the day, with Doppelgangers frolicking in the stacks of the Great Library and Shade,, re.,rin1,t Jown the bridges to the Iron Hills. The war with Oblivion will he over, and 5rygia will have lost.
Then the Harrowing will begin.
The rrick here is to see what the wraith will do after all hope would appear co be lost. Will he surrender anJ Join the occupying forces, fight a hopeless battle for
\'engeancc's sake, or attempt to build something from the ruins? Spectres portraying looters, survivors and Enthralled wraiths will give the Harrowing victim methmg rowork again.st, but the choices to be made here are more difficult than most. Ir is important for the HarroweJ wr-.mh to maintain hope and not succumb to d pa1r or mge. Suicidal attacks on Spectres are as mappropmtte as Joining the Shadow-eaten ar their play.
Burned Bridges - All of us make choices we regret in life, leaving behind friends or loved ones. Whether or not we miss the fr1endsh1ps, romances and ocher forms of human contact we pass by 1s irrelevant, as no matter what some rel3rion• ships simply fall by the wayside. The regrets and unfinished business of such frayed am1chments are good raw Harrowing material. Confronting a wraith with every,,ne he's left behind or climbed over co achieve anything can tie him in lmori., never allowing him to see p11,t the immediate confrontation to the greater scheme of the Harrowing. A Greek chorus of Spectres masquerading as old lovers, bosses, friends and .so on, each bringing up a perceived betrayal or loose end, ("I gave you your (ir.;t hreak, and how did you repay me!" "That was our idea you sold as your own, you ha,rard!" and so on) can dro\1.-n a wraith in echoing rccnmmations from long ag,,. It doesn't even matter if the accusations arc true to the character hismry; the semes of hurt, betrayal and vengeance are what matters.

Nor does the setting for this on of Harrowing need to be wnsistent. Ir can  flash from home to office rt>dorm co board room to beach to wherever is appropriate for the character speaking ar the ume. The more hackdrops that fla h m anJ our, the more unsettling the effect. This pamcularly holds true 1f the backgrounds are suhrly twil>ted versions of settings associated with the ro1,ter of personae the Spectres are adopting.
Quick and Dirty
There are times when there just aren't enough Spt.>ctres (or people to play them) to goaround. In that ca c. it's time for a quick and dirty Harrowing. In an insrnnce like this, the character being Harrow -J engagl!1> the Narrator pre m in thebby­ rmrh in three challenges: Physical, Social and Mental. The challenge come in no particular order.
Cnater ix:1ne l1aow
The Narrator has 30 Traits to spread among the three categories for purposes of overbiddmg and re:.istance; how she divvies chem up is upco her.She should, however, wme the division down before the Harrowing begins. lf the Narrator wins rwo out of three or better, then the wraith has lo r the Harrowing and lo.se,; a Permanent Corpus Trait.She thensnaps back to a Ferreror, ifshe bas none, the Tempest. lf she wins twoof three or better, she triumphs in the Harrowing. and snaps back to reahry at one of her Ferrets (Narrator discretion) or m the Tempest if she has none. In any evenr, when the
\\'faith leaves the Harrowing, she regains three Temporary Corpus Traits (if;;he can rake that many).
Eidolon Traits, but no others, can be used to force retests here.
183
(na terSe\'en:Storytellin
chapter Seven: Storytelling
,	  ru, ,hap<e, 0 rms .. ,,.,,.11 and, m, , ,	We ,.'1,w ,, ­
:·	Swrytelling Oblivion 1s very d1ttcr.:m from Storytcllmg Wraith,
_·cs
1s	with a ,-plu pcrsonaltry. Roth
humans and WTJith:, m.'t.-d to be taken careof, and!--ridging the gap hem-een the twocan he labor-inrcn:,i"e in the extreme. Further•
and effort.
game of Oblivion
Hnrmwings, Oblivion is not
can Jernnnd serious mvc,tments1,f t imt·
On the other hanJ, there is a bright side ro all oi rhi.'>. Running Oblivion provides you with a stilgc to tell your stories, and the very complexity of the• game allows
CMtte roric':\
There
the
1nyone or anything from history can show up m the Shadowlan<b, and practically anr• thing imagined
might I>.!a litdc too intense or permanent for regular plotlines, whale Shadows n.l,l 11
whole new way to interact with players. In the end, chc effort is more th,m wonh il.
chronicles
olivion
f characters are the lifeblood of Mind's Eye Theatre, then the chronicle is the body they sustain. Although Oblivion can be used and enJoyed as a series of loosely connected stories, such
games often lacka senseof continuity and offer little opporcu. mty for character development. Furthermore, wraithsoften have long-term goals related to their Passions and Fetters; one story ts rarely enough to resolve anythingsatisfactorily.In a chronicle
-  an ongoing series of stories -  not only do charactel"li reside

in a familiar environment, but one that evolves as they interact with it. Developing and maintaining a chronicle is a satisfying cask, but It requires continuous effort and dedication on the behalf of you and your Narrators.
Setting tneStage
The first element to consider in chronicle construction is the atmosphere you desire. The cwo aspects of atmosphere are moo<l and theme. Each 1s a fundamental ingredient in the alchemy of a chronicle. Although mood and theme have already been discussed in terms of srory, and some ideas previously presented apply here, mood and theme for a chronicle involves ocher aspects.
Mood
Mood is the underlying emotional sentiment of a chronicle. It suHainsand flows through everything you do, unobtrusive yet omnipresent. While the mood of a chronicle is intangible, your choice of mood can be one of the most important ones you make as regards plot, character, and theme. After all, if you're going for a mood of terror, a gunbunny plot (and characters co macch) won't make much sense.
Theme
Themes are central ideasof a chronicle, ones chat help define the shape of the action. They can be as visceral as the struggle for freedom or as intellectual as the age-old questions ofgood and evil.Themes can emerge asseemingly inconsequential encounters or as the major focusof a chronicle.Avoid overemphasizing theme, how­ ever.Overemphasis makesrelated eventsexpecreJ and predictable rather than haunt· ing and prophetic.
Setting
The  setting is the stage upon which the drama of a chronicle b played Sewng is composed of environmenr and locale. Environment describes the overall scheme of the world.The environmenr of Oblivion involves the three levelsofghostly exist· ence, Guilds, Legions, Ferrymen, mortals, PaS51ons, Fetters, Maelstroms and much more. A myriad of potential alternatives are available. It's your reality-do with it what you will.
( apter evteonr:1tellin
Locale, or the physical point where you choose to place your chronicle, is the next step coward chronicle creation. The easiest choice for chronicle setting is the very ciry in which you and your players live. During your games, you can visit and utilize parts of the city in which your stories cake place. lr's also a good bet that your players are familiar enough with their setting co incorporate all sorts of firsthand knowledge into their play.
If you don't chink your home cown would do as your chronicle's locale, or sim­ ply don't want to use your actual location, there's a whole world out there. Book­ store,, libraries and courm bureaus can provide you with enough detailed informa­ tion to set a chronicle in almost any city. This sort of research is also helpful if your players move around a great deal in the chronicle. Using foreign locales takes a bit more imagination, but if you're playing this game, you're probably nor running low in thar department anyway.
When it comes down co it, who says your chronicle muse be sec in the modem da ·? Although we suggest other times only forexperienced players and Storytellers, a number of historical eras provide excellent settings for chronicles.

Creating t eCicy
The c1cy is the locus of yourchronicle. You need to present your city in a realis­ tic and consistent manner so that players believe in it. The setting must live and breathe for players, and, until it does, characters cannot come co be. The city is 'Vhcre your stories take place - the more interesttng and exotic 1t seems, the more Your stories come to life. With each story you run, define the c1ry a little more, but don't give away everything at once.
As the chronicle progresses, add details of geography, cusrom and plot. Build the city bit by bit at whatever pace you choose. The mortal half of the city isfairly
��-!!&:ti   ·=
Oolivion
I• -- -
easy co e.o,tablish. Though the settmg of Oblivion is the World of Darkne.o,s, much of it is identical to the world we know. However, the city um't quite the one you livein. Ir'sfictional. You may want to change a few details here and there to suit the moodof your game.
Then you wanr to consider the Restless half of the equation. The history of your city should help, determining what relic buildings are present in the Shadowlands. Still, you need to decide what sites are haunted, where the Citadel might be, which Legions and Guilds are present, where the local N1hils are and so on.
Last but not least, you should make sure the design of the city meshes well with the motif of your overall chronicle. ff the chronicle is going to be about corruption, the city ought to be corrupt as well, both in its mortal and ghostly aspects.
Castingtne parts
Once you know what is in your city, it's time to rhank about who. Both morcal, and wraiths should be your concern here; neither side is terribly effective without the other. It's generally best to Starr at the top -  who are the Anacreons, the local Guildmasters, the leaders of Gangs and Cults in the area. Deathlords and Ferrymen should be used sparingly, if at all; they're simply too powerful. You should also think about whether any Spectres have infiltrated your Necropolis. On the mortal side, political leaders and ghost-hunters are equally important. If there is another super­ natural presence m your city, you will wane to detail that as well. The local vampire and werewolf populations, and their relations to the Restless, are all important things to have mapped out in advance.
intrigue
Intrigue is a vital ingredient of your chronicle. For people co play our intrigue, they need to be drawn into it. Power is often a lure. This power needs to be immedi­ ate and real. It needs to be visible and obtainable. It needs co be given out only occasionally co inspire characters to pursue it, but not so often that opportunities are passed on.
Ambition
Many characters eventually wanr to assume positions of power in the c1cy. In some games, this is Just another aspecr of the self-generating plots players contrive on their own. In ocher games, you may plan che characters'search for power from the begmnmg. In either case, you need to learn what long-term goals your players wane to accomplish lo the chronicle. You can then tailor an occasional session co the,e goals, hue don't give the players everything they wane. Some may covet powerful positions in the Hierarchy, or co advance the political agendas of outs1der grou they belong co.Othersmayseek Transcendence or knowledge of the missing Charon. Both goals are power in one form or another, both over others and over one's self.

More than a few players don't know or admit what they want in the long-term, or may not Jeme power. Don't worry, chey'll sec cheir sights on something in time, especially 1£ cempced by their ShaJows or other players. Practice srringing players along. Keep a carrot dangling before them. After all, you've gm che whole world co
Cnapter even: to1ytellin
play with as a Storyteller; you can certainly offer wmethmg to keep chem coming back for more.
The price of power
In most chronicles, ,r's likely that one or more characters are in a position of power. If chis is the case, the players need to know exactly what their responsibilities and advantages are. In general, any players in the role of Anacreon, high-ranking Guild member, Heretic or Renegade leaderor Ferrymanshould beexperienced enough 10 assist you as a Narrator. As powerful characters can have rremendous impact on
lesi;er characters and the story as a whole, players should know what the ramifica­
tionsof their acnons are and must take them intoconsideration.Only experience in play develops this insight, but it 1s viral that players with characters in positions of power understand both their responsibilities and their limits. Powerful characters, if abused, can serve to discourage players with weaker characters. This drives off new players, and evenrually the power-gamers may find themselves with no one to lord it over except one another.
chronicle Dynamics
The  key to a successful chronicle 1sa constant and uninterrupted flow ofaccion. In the real world, events never stopoccurring, and everyone, in one way or another, gets dragged into life's chaos. Your chronicle should have the same power. All char­ acters should be drawn mco the events around them. Every character should be do­ ing something. Those in conflict may bide their rime and pause to marshal their
forces, but the tension never recedes. After all, if you give your players time to rest,
relax and think, they may think about the fact that they're just playing a game. Too much time for reflection can shatter the most carefully crafted illusionary worlds.
Trouole inall shapes anctSizes
There are dozens of thmgs in a story that cango wrong. This is parricularly true of a chronicle. With the added level of complexity that comes with a chronicle, problems with continuity, advancement, numerous players, constant change and background plots are inevitable. A few of the more common chronicle problems, and how to deal with them, are derailed below:
Problem Players - This problem is probably one of the most delicate and potentially disastrous you can face. For one reason or another, one or more players are disrupting the story and ruining everyone's good time. This can be the result of many things: cheating, rule quotation ("rule lawyering"), personal vendettas or im­ proper behavior.
Once you·detect a problem, your first action should be coapproach the players privately and explain what they are doing and why you don't like 1r. At chat point, most people attempt cochange their ways... and that's char. Unfortunately,some are prone co backsliding or just don't take the problem seriously, disregarding your warn­ ing. The next step to consider is somesort of penalty.Temporary suspension from the

•:
Onlivion
chronicle is usually effective. Jf players continue to make trouble, you may have to perform the distasteful rask of barring them encirely from your chronicle.
Do not be afraid to desrroy characters that unbalance your game. If the character's player i worthwhile, he'll understand the need for the sakeof all of the other players.
Favoritism - There isoften a tendency to give friendsspecial treacmenc. Be vigilant to this habit m all those who run and play the game, including yourself. If the problem does arise, try to remember that this is Just a form of entertainment; no one can rea:;onably hold you responsible for a character's loss. If the problem contin­ ues, cry to isolate problem individuals from encounters where favorinsm might oc­ cur. As a final option, remove the offender from any position in which she can dis­ pense favors.
Grudge - ln this situation, an individual is created unfairly for some reason that 1s not related ro her character's nature or actions. Such is often the case with players who are not fond of each other in the real world. Handle tt m a manner similar to favoritism problems.
Stagnation - Even the most imaginative Storyteller occasionally rum out of ideas. Perhaps you're running the game too often to give yourself time to create new and original stories. If this is the case, consider spacing sessions further apart to pro­ vide yourself more planning time. Another solution is to takeon moreStorytellers or Narrators ro give the chronicle a greater creative base on which to draw. A plot coordination council ofsomesort1salmost essential to running large-scale chronicles.
Logistics-  Problems with supplies and locations are bound to arise. Jf this is the case, be sure to communicate with everybody involved in the game. Players are
often able to help procure a setting, props, incidental supplies and all manner of other needs.
Getting the News Out -Sometimes you just don't have enough people to play the type of chronicle you've planned. This is moreoften a case of poor aJvertfa­ mgthan genuine lack of bodies. Consider posting notices on electronic bulletin boards or your local university network, m game and hobby stores, ar conventions, at gam• ing organizatioru;, with theatre or drama groups, on coUege campuses and anywhere else you think imaginative people with a taste for the original might frequent.
Staying Focused - At times your story may drift away from its original plot, or players may become lost. They may become too wrapped up in thetr own subplot> or may be unable ro unravel a puzzle. When this happens, you need something co brmg the story back on course.
Having a few extra props available can be helpful when the story goes off on a tangent. Many of the prop idea-; already suggested can be used to reorient players, For example, an answering machine audio tape with an important message can renew char· acters' interest in their original goal. Documents concaming important information are another option, allowing characters a new avenue in pursuit of the tr original goal.

Maintenanceand ecord keeping
It'sa simple fact char the longer a chronicle runs, the morecomplex ic becomes. The increased size of some chronicles only amplifies this fact. Developing a merbod and che habit of keeping records is essential.
. cliapter even: to11tellin •
The easiest part of the chronicle co keep records on is characters' statistic;.. Having a master copy of each character and Shadow sheet has several advantages. Someone is bound co lose his character sheet amlmay need a replacement. Without a gooJ memory or a master copy, thiscan pose a problem, especially with advanced characte . Storyteller records of characters alsodiscourage unscrupulous players from altering their characters m the field. Furthermore, you can make use of character information when designing new stories. And it'sa good idea to update your master copiesafter each story, given changesarising from experience, rewardsand penalnes.
A Journal of events from each session proves equally invaluable, helping you understand changes the chromcle undergoes. You can then apply these changes to new stories. Ideally, you, the Narrators and players should all file some sort of infor­ mal reporr after each story. Records from everyone can keep you appraised of all
<:vents and  let you 1n on players' md1vidual intentions. To encourage players to pro• v1dc thu; information accurately, consider makmg reports mandarory or award expe• rience only afrer you receive chem. Make 1t clear that these reports are confidenttal
:ind will not be UliCd to "screw playe over."
•i
Advancement and Balance
,:;::;;:,
Oblivion
TI,egreatest reward forsome players is thesheerJOY of playing. However, many play. crs pn,fer to seetheir characters improve in statusand power. Both needs must besatisfied.
Players who enjoy the story for its own sake are easy to please. In
often please themselves by pursuing the goals their characters desire, which areoften interpreted by the players themselves.
Pleasing accomplishment-seekers 1s a little more difficult. Allow
chances to improve rheir station in the chronicle, if it's within the scope of thing .
\Vhen characters makeachievements, their players are happy. However, to keep play­ ers happy without their characters achieving massive power, be prepared ro take
down a peg or rwo, or allow other characters co do so for
revenge motives, such atracks fire players' deSLre to achieve more.
Experience points, which playersspend to improve theircharacters, are oneform of
reward, but there are orhers that are just assatisfying. Gainmg the favor and
wraiths car1 be more rewarding than any Arcanos. Furthermore, there are numer-
01.ll, positions of power that Experience Points can't buy, but ambition and tenacity Even in welI-planned chronicles, players may reach a paint where they are bored and
discontented with their place in the story. A player in this position acrually has a
options. Staniog a new character, only playing d,e old onefrom time to time, helps player.; see if theystill have what it takes toseea character survive. Asa Sroryreller, makesure the player doesn't use this option to accumulate pawer for both his characters. Bringing in old character's "relative"and allowing interaction between the siblings canmean

they"work together." The easiest way to discourage this is to deny any direct tics between am] newcharacters. Anorneroption to isto take the"advanced"character a:;
The character'sexperience wim yourchronicle and game	whole
can be used as a resource by lesser characters (i.e.,	seek help from the
experienced character), and the older character can be the means for furorestones.
Setting
toryrelling is more than simply voice and action.The playing environment also make your story
life. When	runninga story, you don't want	to
merely imagine they're playmg in a world where ghosts walk and
bcxlies rise from the Setting the
You want them ro feel
is, thankfully, relatively
thercc
some effort and imagination, but with a minimum of experience
you'll haveNecropoli loomingin notime.Tohelpyou
provided
hints and ideas. Ultimately, though,
an envtronmcnr 1s
licruted only by your imagination. Take rhe advice we provide and run with tt.
SettingandEnvironment
More than
be
the
into
has impact
when
story's mood (which IS discussed lacer).The location you choose mw;t fit the needs of your game as well as the atmosphere you have in mind.
finding locations
The  first practical step in planning a game is finding	place to play. Where you play the game is influenced by the specific needs	your		like the
number of players involved, theme, mood and nature of the plot all have an influ­ ence on the type of location you choose.
The scaleof the game is your firsr consideration. Make certain you have enough room for aJI the players to move about. Multiple rooms or areas are helpful. The best
layout usually involves a central meeting room that all the players can and multiple smaller sites for secret meetings. Possibilities include dorm lounges, museums, night clubs, coffeehouses,conventions, parks, office buildings or warehouses.
in malls,
Obviously, extreme care must be taken when using these sites. You must ensure that all of the players are courteous and unobtrusive when playing in a public place. No "mundanes" should ever reali;,e a game is being played, and players need to un­ derstand that the session is over if anyone finds out about the game and is disrurbed by what you're doing.
Somesitesare more conducive to certain rypesof stories. You mayfinda particular location is your favorite, but even then, you should keep your mind open to change. A change of locale,even if foronly one scene, can help revive a dying
Most locations (or "sets") can be decorated to convey a	mood. You must
seek out sites that cater to the style of your game and nature of its plot. For best results, thesettingshould havea basis in reality. Inother words, if it'sa highenergysocial aono•
sphereyouseek,	your story in a nightclub. lf you're looking for a calm and inccllec­
tual setting, perhaps a museum or art gallery is appropriate. When choosing a location, look foran area that establishes the mood and aonosphere you're after.
CangingScenes
Sometimes it'snecessary to useonearea fordifferent settings withm the samestory. Actual set changes should be performed quickly and efficiently. Lengthy set changes leave players bored. When your scene is changed, give it a last once-over, making

everything is in place. A	change should be just that. When the players
room again, theyshould have thedistinct feeling that they're enteringa new place.Your
new decorations don't even need to beoverly complicated. A quick shift	the couch or table, switching or removing a thtow rug, draping a loveseat, and moving		removing
chairsall helptochange thefeelofa room without neces.sitatingmajoralterations. Chang, ing the lighting and music can also make a bigdifference in a set's feel.
Ambiance and Mood
Establishing the right feel for a	is governed by serung and environment.
However, ambiance and mood are established and maintained by elements that are
imposed upon the
ing touches for completing
Effects like music and lighting are
the finish­
- •	-	·	  2--::-· 	i
I	Oblivion	I	:e.:.
•===============--
Music: Music can be an 1megral part of establishing rhe mood of a story. It
lendsa hand in creating drama and, when appropriate, tension. When planning your story be certain to select music chat complements your intended mood. Also make sure you have a variety of music on hand in case the mood changes. However, take care not to let the music get obtrusive or too familiar. lf your players have to shout over thundering lyrics, or 1( your ghosts find themselves singing along to your soundtrack, your game will rapidly dissolve inro chaos.
Audio Effects: Above and beyond music, certain sounds and effects can en­ hancean evening. Horror and sound effect CDs, found in any music score, are a good place to start. A goo<l CD can provide a variety of sound effects to simulate many different events, like tires screeching, gunshots or barking dogs. Proper timing of these sounds 1s critical. If you're able to pre-mix a tape of effects, you can play them at appropriate moments in the story. Preparation is the key. Have your effects cued
up ahead of time so chat, wich the mere touch of a button, hideous screams can he
heard by all. Preparation makes for more drama than having to delay the game while you set up the right sound.
Lighting Effects: The Underworld is, not surprisingly, a place of dim lights and many shadows. With a minimum of effort, you can reproduce chis sort of effect for your game of Oblivion. Remember, a few well-placed shadows can hide a great many anomalies that might orherwise distract your players from the game.
Avoid high wattages and white light. Multicolored light bulbs have the broad­ est effect. By arranging multicolored light bulb, in different parts of the room, you can create shadowy areas and still have well-ht "white light" areas where the colors intersect. If you have track lighting, recessed multicolored bulbs work very well. If you can't get multicolored bulb., cloth draped over lights works iust as well (bur avoid putting cloth in direct contact with hot bulbs). The key is contrast from low wattage bulbs. Keeping enough low lights to contrast with one another results in plenty of light to see byand plenty of shadows to hide in. Play around with different combinations to determine what works best for your mood and scene.

Whtie candles may be very atmospheric, they should be used extremely spar• ingly. Recreating the desolation of the Shadowlands in theory is a good chmg, but Jomg o by bummgdown your site generally has a detrimental effect on a chronicle. Even without candles, though, if you keep your wattage low, avoid direct white light, and experiment w1ch your color schemes, you should be able co find the right com bi· nation to create the proper atmosphere for your story.
props
After you've got a story, players, a place to play and even selected a cool soundtrack to accompany the game, something else is still needed co bring the scary to life. This is the poinr at which props come in. Props for a story don't need co be grandiose or expensive. Mose props can be found m your own home or your grand· parents' attic.
In most forms of theatre, pror, play an extensive role. In fact, in modem movie,,, props can at rimes overwhelm the viewer, sometimes derractmg from the ftlm. ln this game, propsshould be kept relatively s11nple andshould nor attract more anention than the srory itself. Only a few couches are needed co help a player's imagination fill in the
cl1ater even: torrtellin
blanks.Since thi;,1sa scorytdlmg game, unaginatmn is of the ucmo,,c1mpor1.ance. This ts not cosay that you should besparing with props. If you have the available maccnal , go wild. Just make sure char the props are not the focus of the story. The spotlight shoulc..l
always remain on the characters, not on what surrounds them.
General props
General propsare items thatcan help you further a story bygiving playerssome• thing that they can physically examine. The Storyteller should be wary of how often physical props are used and what tmpact they haveon the story. If they are allowed to dominate a story, players may begin to rely on them rather than interacting with one another. Besure co inform players when props will be used in a story. Otherwise, they are likely to disregard an important clue, considering it just another feature of the
place you're playing in.
Many items can be u ed as general props to help enhance your scory. Books, jewelry, documents and pieces of artwork are a few examples. These props can be used to actually give information, or they can merely give ms1ghc inco the character of che person possessing the prop. Somerimes an item has to be represented by an item card, as in the case of weaports. Also, a card may be discreetly attached to an item, giving more information to a player who mspects the item.
Creative and effective usage of general props can make a story more interesting for everyone, particularly if props arc used to represent Fetter:, with plot (as well as character) significance. The important thmg is costay focused and avoid overloaJ­ ing yourself with them. If you come up with an idea for a prop, but are unable to  implement it, don't panic -  your story can stand on its own. After all, people, not

things, make a story.
personalprops
Personal props, like costumes, are used by players to help d1Hingu1sh them as their characters. These propscan 1:-e particularly useful for Narrator characters, espe• cially when Narrators must often change from character co character.
Many different items can be used to help portray a character. Cloaks, jackets, scarves, hats, canes and jewelry are only a few of the accessories chat can give a character a distincnve look. You may want to prov1Je certain items to players to aid them in chis manner, especially if players are uncertain of the characters they are playing. For example, if you plan a story involvmg a Renegade gang, you may supply players with matching bandannas to identify them as gang members.
Many personal props can be found right m your own home. Searching through the attics of relatives can reveal old clothing and Jewelry. Costume jewelry works best; real jewels can be far too valuable to lend out for a game. Should all else fail, second-hand stores can be great places to pick up a few last-minute props at an af­ fordable price. All manner of clothing, incluc..ling hars, canes anJ CDlitume jewelry, can be acquired at such emporiums.
In many stones, not much is needed by way of personal props. Sometimes, only a cane or piece of jewelry can make a character. The most important thing to re• member is to have fun with props, avoiding dangerous ones.
•;
Oolirion
No-Nos
Weapons should never be used as props. In addition, props must be understood to be someone's property, not some character's properry. If your players start taking home the props that belong to their characters, perhaps it's time to reconsider using props at all.If you chose to go this route,cards (like those used to represent weapons) are best.
CreatingStories
Story creation can be as simple or as detailed as you want. The more effon you put intopreparing astory, the smoother it runs when it'sexecuted. There is nosmall amount of satisfaction to be gained from writing a successful and appreciated story. Finding the right combination of stimuli to ignite creative thought can be diffi­
cult. For some of us, creativity comes naturally. For others, it's more difficult cobring
creative aspects of personality to the fore. However, this isexactly what you must do in order to create a good story. Creativity is not generally taught in school. In fact, it'soften discouraged. Rediscovering your childhood enthusiasm is one way to find a wellspring of imagination.
Inspiration can come from any source. Magazines, movies, books, theatre, tele­ vision, friends, family... you get the picture. The challenge is to take what you see and change it into something all your own. Inspiration can be, quite literally, any stimulus that ignites the process of creative thought. Hence, inspiration is veryoften as dependent on what's without as on what's within. What sends one person's mind racing may bore someone else. You must find the things that inspire you (if you don't already know) and associate with them in order to stoke your creative fires.

plot
A story's plot is its progression of events. Plot not only mvolves the machina­ tions of the powers that be, but the machinations of the characters as they pursue their own goals in the story. Plots are essential to the successful progression of the story. They serve as a beginning to, and a guide during, the story.
A story can haveany number of plots (see "Story Style," below,for moredetailson this).These plotsshould all be wound together withskill and care before the actual game begins. The trick is o have all the pieces of a plot already wrinen m the characters' briefings so they can read about their own respective pans of the overall plot ac the game's beginning. Together, the characters' backgrounds compose the main story, and by pursumg their own pans of the story, characrers progress the plot as a whole.
During a story, it's often helpful to keep a schedule of events. This is a pre• planned sequence of events (usually initiated by outside forces) thac'sgoing to occur regardless of the characters' accions. Typically, characters played by Narrators keep the schedule on track. It is also helpful to integrate occasional Narrator characters into rhestory to assist the progression of the plot (or plots). These tacticsshould be used sparingly; otherwise players may grow dependent upon interaction with Narra­ tors instead of with each other. However, occasional Narrator intervention can add a new level of unpredictability and excitement to a story.
ElementsofaStory
The elements of a story are best defined by its components or stages. It isoften helpful to think of plot elements in renns of tense (past, present and future). In terrru; of story structure, these elements are the addressed in the opening, climax and reso­ lution. At the beginning of the scory, characters reflect on events of their past that have brought them to thestory.The story's climax is where the story's plot (or plots) are exposed and dealt with bysome or all of the characters. Finally, there's the reso­ lution, where the story comes to a close and hooks for future stories can be laid.
Opening
The  opening can be any point from which you choose to begin yourstory. It can be a gradual, gentle start or a shocking plunge into the world of the Restless. The latter works best if the characters start out as living humans; the former is better for extended chronicles with older wraiths.
At the beginning of a story, each character should have a written synopsis of
recent events that"everyone" would be aware of. This provides a basisfor your plots, as well as layingdown somecommon ground for characters to discuss. ("Did you hear about that Legionnaire whogot cashiered for taking bribes?""Yeah, real shame about that. Hecut me loose a couple of times  "andsoon). Furthermore, by establishing
common knowledge, you're also helping to set the tone and theme of your game.
The synopses of common knowledge and recent personal evenrsshould be brief explanations of the situation at hand. They should be precise and intriguing. These synopses should be the first media through which players get a feel for the story's mood. The synopses should also hint at the story's main theme. You may even wish to foreshadow the plot, but that depends on your personal style.

Climax
When the main plot is on the verge of conclusion, the story is considered at irs cli­ max.This usually happenswhen characters havediscovered all they need to know cosolve whatever problem faces them and are on the verge of resolving the story. The tension b usually at its highest point at tlus time. If the operung wassraged carefully, and the players arecooperative and imaginative, the climaxcan bereached with linleadditional effort on
thepart of Narrators. However, even the bestof planscan be mislaid, or perhaps the Story­ teller and Narracors prefer to takea moreactive role in the progression of your story's plot. Eitherway, thereare times whena Narrator's intervention iswarranted. The climaxshould be the high point of the story, something the players should always anticipate and work toward However, thiselement should never be rushed. It'sa matter of riming.
Extended chromcles shouldn't have everything wrapped up in a single climax.
After all, you need to have something for the Restless to do next week.
esolution
The story's resolution is where all (or most) of the pieces come together. The resolution should be used as a means of winding the excitemenl down while cultivat­ ing an interest in future stories. Players should always end a story feeling as though
Oblivion
they have accnmplisheJ ,omerhing. Ther Jo not haw ro uncover rlw big picture· mcrdy knowing they've found another piece of the pu::zle is often enough. In Mind'; Eve Theatre, rlay<·r.. often enjoy gachennf for a i:roupwrap-up =ion after a game. Unlike rolcplaym,:? games, players of Oblivion rarely sec all of the action char rakes pl.ice -  they get wrapped up in their own enJs, not rhc group's. During wrap-up
,c,,iom, many pla\'ers look forward to learning more alxlut "the big picntre." At the wr11p-up, player,; ,hare their \'cr,ion of the tor)' anJ, m '-0 doing, give other pla}'en 1n orl"xrumty 10 i,ee more of chc game they Just rook pan in.
off-line Gaming
ln-d,araccer c•m,111', infom1al discussions .u coffeehou and tht! lih• can all serve both a, rolcplaying exercises anJ as way to advance pints. As long a, player keep some perspective on this son of thing (phone calls at 3 A.M. to di;cuss manor plot point, generJlly ,ignal a need for help), off lme gaming can I><! a great ll<'JY to shaJe the i,-ay area ofyour eame.
StoryConsiaerations
long in shoot•'cm-ups. Tr11lor your plot lO what you have to work with in terms of group, character anJ etting.
Scale
':x:ale is the number of people you ha\'e ph);ng. Gamt, can range in size from
there neeJs w 1'c a metaplot, a grand scheme 1h:u giws c,·cry<me a starting point.
Scope
.i	1mp11rrnnc
tcrs inrnh-ed ma pint, the higher rhe stakes should he. Don't forget yc,ur morwh 11, n_ creating plob, eith.;r.The actions of the livmg h,1vea huge effect on the dcaJ, in1ermsol
Chater evteon:1tellin
Cast
Another factor to take mtocoruidcration is the type of characters cast members romay. The best way co determine this is to ask them. A story usually works best if players are enacting characters they are comfortable with, although ir can occasion­ ally b<!ihterestmg to cast players in roles different from what they're used m playing.

This variation in casting should only be done if you think it would be enjoyahle for all the players.
An important consideration is whether you are g1vmg players pre-made charac­ ters, with complete backgrounds, Attribut andArcanoi, or tf players are allowed to make their own characters. Sometimes the guidelines lie somewhere m-hetween.
Obviously, the easiest of these opuons 1s to use pre-made characters. This allows you ro customize your story to the characters, tying them to one another to make for a more mmguing plot. The problem with cll!l, is that casr memhers are sometimes disappointed with the characters they gee. This can detract from everyone's cnJOY· menr.
Story Sfyle
Style is the method you use in constructing your story. It describes how the subplots tic m with the main plot and how charncters interact with the environment you have chosen. Style is the thread from which your story is woven. Without style, a stor)' has no cohesive form and mighc become bormg for players. You need to de­ velop and hone your style so as to be able to craft a finely tuned story, with many layers and intricacies for players to explore.
Main plot
The main plot, or metaplot, is the root of a story, and any other lesser plots will grow from the main plot. The main ploc is what bnngscharacters rogerher, unifymg their attention. The main plot of a story should be all-encompassmg, in that all characters should be affected by it in at least a minor fashion. The main plot should illuminate every other aspect of the story. Not all of them need be touched by it direcrly, bur each character should be aware of che main plot ac least on some periph­ eral level.
Su plots
In most novelsand movies,subplotsare just filler material. They aree sential ro Mind's Eye Theatre. Subplots keepcharacren, busy and carry them from momenc to moment. 1l1ey are the stones chat are woven around the characters. A story gives players ample opporrunities to exploresubplots, and due to the unique nature of this son of game, subplots can be taken as far as the players want to take them.
Each character should be involved m as many subplots as possible. A suhplot can be any personal goal a character is crying to accompli,h. Subplots should be crafted so as to intermingle with one another, so tha1 characters become embroiled in a weh of intrigue.
)'	Jc.ct
.t\f '.°.o:--_
-
o livion
I
The more layersof intrigue in a story, the more players enJoy untangling them. Indeed, if your scning is intricate enough, you may find players developing subplots of their own, adding to the confusion. This should be encouraged, because 1t helps the story grow and gives it a life of ics own.
A subplotcan sometimes be almost as large in scope as the main plot, the differ­ ence being that it isnornecessary for everyone to be involved. However, you should take care that the subplot does not override the main plor.

C aracter elations
Character interaction isa part of everystory and every chronicle. Intricatechar­ acter interaction is essential to a story. That is not to say that all characters will gee along harmoniously - character strife is usually much more interesting. However, making sure that characters relate to one another requires a bit of planning on your part. Making sure that players create backgrounds for their characters helps, as it gives you more material ro work with to create common ground for wraiths.Spread­ ing rumors that provide incentive for discussion, trade, and cooperation is another good way to go, as is the inclusion of a nasty villain who will forcecharacters at least to discuss working together.
MultipleGoals
Each of us possesses a multitude of goals and ambitions. Many of them conflict, and we have to choose between them. For instance, you might want to go to the movies on the sameday you want to visita friend. Multiple goalscomplicate matters, and while in real life that can be bothersome, in thisgame it only adds to rhe excite• menc. The more complicated you can make things, rhe better.
Complications such as multiple goals give characters depth and keep players b -y. A player with several goals is usually occupied throughout the course of a story and is rarely bored. Indeed, if players with multiple goals achieve even one of those goals, they probably leave the 5tory with a sense of accomplishment.
Narration andStorytelling
ow that you have written a story, you need to make it work in a livegame. Narratinga story is an art akin co jugghng; you have to keep upwith allstory threads, play judgeand makesure that none of the players get bored - you'll be juggling quite a few of them. Narration requires a lot of work and planning, and usually leaves youexhausted. You, however, havea ringsideseat cothe storyand can watch it unfold in its entirety. Because your control of the story is loose (tight conttol denies player freedom), you may be
surprised by how the story cwisrs and changes in the handsof your players. If youdo your
job well, you will be rewarded with the players' thanks.
Of course, with the great rewards of storytelling comes a great deal of responsi• bilicy. You have to initiate and guide the story and present it in an entertaining manner. You, aboveall people involved, can destroy the story. Evena verygoodsrory ca n be ruined if it's not presented well. If a few required player handoucs are missmg,
200
(l1apter e\·en: torrtellin
or if players have no idea where the game is taking place, you have failed. It is very important that you prepare every aspect of chat story as far ahead of time as possible. Jf you try to prepare an entire game at the last minute, you'll be stressed out hy the time the game begins. The game will suffer heavily from your exhaustion.
Veteran roleplaying Storyrellers should take note char runrung a live game is very different from running old-style roleplaying games. You can no longer sit down

an hour before play commences and dream up a quick plot. If you try ro do this, your story will have lots of holes. If you change your scrcing in mid-story, you need co represent the change in some wayso players realize where they are without having co
ask. Prepare everything in advance, or suffer the folly of sloth.
The main rule co remember when preparing your story is "show, don't tell." You have to prcsenr your scoryso players can make their own impressions of the environ­ menr without your impressions beingforced on them. Livegames work because play­ erscan take the lead based on information they discover themselves. If you have not fleshed out your srory enough - if you have co cell players what's going on - you might as well be playinga tabletop rolcplaying game.
To be a Storyteller, you need to work magic. You have to create the illusion that your playersare ghosts, dwellingso close to the "real" world but unable to be a part of ic. Fortunately for you, your players will probably cooperate in every way to help you maintain the illusion, but it's up to you to direct their attention from the gamelike aspects of roleplaying.
How toHost aGame
Running an entirechronicle can be exhausting unless you pace yourself. Expect to spend a mimmum of an hour per player writing the story and setting everything up. Expect to acrually play a story bi-monthly or even monthly. Trying co run a weekly game is very taxing and may result in the eventual death of your chronicle. Don't make your games frequent and tedious, but rare and spectacular.
Storyteller focus
As a Storyteller, your focus should always be on keeping the game runnmg as smoothly as possible. To ensure that the game doesn't get out of hand, make sure you have enough Narrators. They'll serve to answer players' questions and resolve che majority of inter-player disputes, as your arbitration should only be required in the most extreme circumstances.
More importantly, though, your Narrators will be an mcegral part of game ac­ tion.Serving asShadowguides and Harrowing Masters, Narrators will be in constant imeraction with players in all levels of your game. This requires a greacdeal of com­ mitment from your Narrators, as they'll constantly be on the go, interacting with only a few characters at a time. On the up side, by having your Narrarors serving as Shadows, you have an instant conduit for getting information and rumors to charac­ ters, as well as a constant source of player feedback on what's going on. Rather than having to cook up a convoluted plot to let characters know that an Anacreon's gone corrupt, you can just have a Shadow whisper it in a wraith's ear. At the same time, if the action slows or people are gening frustrated, having your Narrators constantly on the floor will enable you to pinpoint trouble spots quickly.
- :;:-	'1
olivion
I
Concentrate on where players stand in terms of resolving the plot or solving the mystery you have given them, lf they are struggling, drop a few hints and spread a few rumori,, then watch your Restless scramble to discover new information. If they are too close to solving the mystery, throw in a red herring or create a new scene on rhe fly. Improvisation is a potent arr, and Storytellers who learn to use it are well-rewarded.

If you are playing in public, you must serve as a buffer between the authoritiesof the real worlJ and the pocemial mayhem players can create. Discretion 1s the better part of valor. Educate players on responsible playing, and do not hesitate to hand out rewards or punishments as the need arises.
Preparation is essential to running a successful story. The greater the preparation, the l you have co worry about maintaining focus. A well-prepared game frees you co enJoy your creanon and interact with players, while a poorly prepared game leaves you scrambling to maintain control. When you mamcain focus on story elements, the sur­ roundings and your players, you need not fear the results of any game session.
pre-Game Tasks
here are several things you need codo ro sec up and run a game of Oblivion.
- Make sure you know the size and scope of your game before anything else; it's the only way to make sure there's enough staff and plot for everyone.
Get all of your props and costumes lined up well in advance. These usually require the most legwork anJ take the
most time co round up, so you don't want co be chasing after them last minute.
Choose a gooJ core staff and delegate. You can't do everything yourself; don't even try. Find people you trust, and turn them loose.
Makesureeveryone isworking on the same page. A lotof workcan be wasted hy duplication or misundersrandmgs. Have everyone aware of what everyone else isdoing.
- Keep a paper trail. Note when casks are accomplished and where every• thing is. Keep track of who did well and who didn't. It'll make next nme easier.
- Define everyone's role. Power squabbles and unfinished tasks are both un· productive.
-  Set deadlines and keep to them for all tasks related to the game.
8 - Gee your essential paperwork done. This includes arranging sires, bnefing sheets and plot creation. Don't save this sort of work-intensive thing for the last mmute; if there's a screw-up, your whole game may be left high and dry.
9 - Pace yourself. If you bum out creanng the game, you'll have no fun run• ning it.
C aracter Creation
ll is your role as Storyteller (aided by Narrators) to guide players through rhe character generation process. Ir is generally best to have character creanon gt) on off-line, well before your actual game actton starts. This enables you to gauge accu•
202
Cl1arter even: to1ytellin
rarely the power ll•vel and mood of your game. In addition, character histories will enable you cocreate plotlme.s that will force characters cointeract. Backgrounds will also allow you to bring in faces, places and items from a wraith's past; always useful 1f rhe action starts to flag.
After
basic premise of the game. Your mam goalshould becomakestorycontribution aseasy m, possible for players. If players are beginners, show chem the basics, but let them discover the intricacies of the game on che1rown. Hopefully everyone pla)•ing will haveat lease a basic idea of the rule,;, but be prepared cofield questions and helpout beginners.

Start
players co look them over. You can pass our character sheets ar rhe same rime. Give the players time co look everything over and ask questions. If players can refer co the  briefings and their character sheets while they listen to your explanations, they'll understand how things work a lot berter.
Ir's likely that you havecertain roles m the story rhat you need filled. Your story probably has requirements, in tem1S of characters aml setting, char must be under­ stood
have a general idea of the types of characters you need. The best way co deal with
this is to request certain players ro fill those roles beforehand; usually the extra "oomph" that a precreaced character is likely tO have (not to mention its obv1011sly central role in upcoming plots) will be enough co make up for the disappointment a
player might If
simply show
not
her
job a lot easier- who wants codo briefings at the beginning of every session/ - but becareful cocatch new players who might get losr in the shuffle. Bringing them mto line with what the rest of the game isalready doing will make everyone happier than if new players accidentally find themselves swimming upstream against established plots and characters.
intro ucing yourStory
When players begin to arrive, you need to give them information. You need to tell them what's happened since the last story (if anything) and should provide goals and mouvarions
m written
provide (or you can create) co fac1lttare your story's introduction.
Character Sheets - You need to have enough of these for all your players. It's wise co have spare sheers on hand, since players, who have their own characters, may forget theirs. In addition, you'll need Shadow sheets, pencils for everyone who's forgotten their own, and cards for special Arcanos powers (such as Glow)
Timetable -  (For Narrators only) Thissheet contains a chronological Hsr of all events that take place. Timetable sheets are useful for planning complex smrie.,;, and help your Narrators coordinate where they have to  when. Events listed might be, "10:00 P.M. - Herald of Smilmg Lord arnvcs and announces war with Jade Empire." Make sure each Narrator has her own copy and go through the events on rhe handout during your Narrator briefing.
,
o livion
Background Briefing - This i.s a one-pager that you can create co providea short background for the important characters of yourchronicle. Youshould include any important events that have occurred, rumors that arecirculating throughout the cityandimportant things rhar have happened in previousgames. A new playershould be able co pick up this handout and immediately have an idea of what is going on. (Lost players tend to be bored players, and bored players don't come back.) The handout can mention things like what city the chronicle takes place in and the
names of the local movers and shakers. Make several copies of this document and give one to each player, or leave several out in the open for players co take.
Character Briefing -  Depending upon how thorough your character cre­ ation process IS, you may need to let individual players know special tidbits that their characters know. It's best to have these written down; even the most talented roleplayers have co resort to their notes every now and then.

Guiding players
As your players begin to play out the story, it's possible that they may be unsure of themselves. New players in particular need some sort of guidance to help them learn the rulesand get used to acting out their characters' actions. Stepintoa minor character of your story and engage a new player in a challenge to get her used to the rules. The challenge system works well in play, but most people do nor immediately understand it until they actually defend themselves in a challenge. Try to let new players win your challenge, as it builds their confidence, and confidence is sorely needed when newcomers play in the same game as more experienced players.
Sometimes cast members also need help with their goals. A story that leans heavily toward investigation may frustrate players who miss one or two vital clues. Eventually, some players may come over to you asking for help. Unless it is a rules question, or you have to clarify some point that a character should know, you might not want to give information away too easily at first. If a player receives immediate assistance from a Storyteller or Narrator, you introduce an omnipresent bemg into the game. Players may become dependent on you.
Instead of giving direct artSWers to player questions, encourage players to figure things our for themselves. Later, if a player really does need help, have another Nar­ rator, in the guise of a minor character, assist the player. If another Narrator is not available, you can approach the player and offer aid through your own character (although having another Narrator do it involves a touch of finesse). Pull your assis, rance off cleanly, and the player will never know you have responded to his plea.
You also need to invent things to do for players who seem bored with the game. These players have usually accomplished or hopelessly failed their goals,or can't find rhe motivation ro pursue a difficult goal. Your bestopl.ion is to get a bored player involved in another plot, or to make upa customized plot on the spot. If your character mentions a lead to a powerful Arrifucc that ochersare looking for, the player mayspend time follow­ ing that lead. Alternatively, giving the bored player a clue that someone else has missed allows you to kill cwo birds wirh one stone. It'sa good idea to havea library of new plots on hand that you can drop into your chronicle as needed.
Remember to be vigilant for bored players during your first few games; first-time players might not come back if they're bored all evening long. If you don't keep the
204
' !'"' 	 -  ,,·,
(l1a ter e\'en: ton-tellin
players busy with plots, their characters may start soulforging each orher into tnvets
1w.-r forsomething codo. At this point, d1e game quickly degenerates intoa free-for­ a!!. You'll probably flnd char players stay busy as your chronicle progresses because
they spend more time involved in the plots of ocher players.
interacting withCastMembers

Your key co interacting with cast members is the minor character known as an extra. An extra can be a pre-generated character already woven into the story, or a character created on the spur of the moment to fix a problem. You rarely need to create a character sheet for your extra; a basic concept is usually enough.
Each character you introduce needs to have an easily identifiable mark so play­ ers can recognize which minor character you are playing. A wearable prop, such as a hat, coat, scarf, bandanna or amulet is usually enough. A distinct speech pattern, like an accent, is at least as useful. Remember that the mark needs to be somethmg that you can put on and take off quickly, since you may end up having to switch between several minor characters in an evening's story.
Your excra(s) should be enjoyable to play. During the middle of a story, you may find that you and the Narrators have little to do. You then have a chance to play your bit parts just for fun. Go a little wild. Try to provide some comic relief.
playerQuestions
Aside from baving a way to deal wid1 players within the context of the story, you
need to handle players' questions outside the story. During the first half-hour of a game, it's a good idea to keep a Narrator "out of game" to answer any questions players might have. When players step out of character to askquestions, you don't want them in the
main playingarea. Set me "outside" Narrator up in anomer room. The most important ming to remember when interacting wim players is to never remind mem mey are play­ ing a game; addressing a Narrator as a Narrator does ju.5t mac.
You may occasionally need to impart information mat a character cannot offer. You have to provide such information as discreetly as possible wimout distracting players from meir characters. Shadows are me besr way to go about doing this; re­ member that they may haveaccess to the Spectres' hive mind if you need to explain where me info came from.
If you want co be srylish about offering game information to players, you can prepare notes for Narrators to hand to players who discover mings. You can also put notes in closed envelopes where clues might be found. You can write requirements on the outside an envelope, requirements that must be met before me player may look at me clue within.
One ming you want to avoid whendealing with players is letting mem overuse Narrators. Players may try to use Narrators as messengers, cosummon other charac­ ters, or to try new and interesting abuses of Arcanoi. If a player asks for such favors too often, Narrators can simply refuse their help. Especially in Oblivion, with che added tasks of Shadowguiding and running 1:-larrowings, Narrators are simply m too short a supply to allow them to become hostages to characters or roles.
:1•
Working with Narrators
oolivion	I
As a Storyteller, )'OU can't do everything yourself. It's not poi;sible. No matter how good a Scoryceller you are, you're going to  need the help of Narrators (unless perhaps, you have only five or six players). If you cry to  run the whole story, you wili quickly become overwhelmed. It' best to delegate tasksand let your Narrators make juJgmenc ca11s.

Ideally, you, as Storyteller,should not have to deal with players very much (un­ les you establish your elf as a Narrator as well as Storyteller). You should wander around and observe to make sure the story1s proceeding well. Playersshould learn to go to Narrators with their quesrionb. A player should refer to you only if a Narrator has no idea how to handle a question.
To ensure that Narrators understand what's going co happen in the story, you should meet with them early in the evening. If no one but you knows what's going on, Narrators aren't much use. You should assign tasks to Narrators at this tame. For Narrator to provide a clue to a character, but lee che Narrator
work out how and  when it's delivered.
Narrators need co keep you informed of their rulings and of story events. Avoid reversing a decision that a Narrator has made. Doingso makes Narrators seem inde­ cisive and leads players to doubt them. If you want to  run a large game, you are gomg co need assistants, and you have to learn to communicate with them effectively.
TheTeeming Hordes
For Oblivion, che one thing that you will need is a large caseof willing Narrators. There 1s simply more for Narrators to do in Oblivi.on than in any ocher Mind's Eye Theatregame,and if you underpopulate your Narrntive staff, you shortchange your play­ ers by creanng Ion linesfor Harrowings and few opportunities forShadow interaction.
Dowhatever it cakes to makesure that you haveenough Narrators, or your story will fall
apart. While players can do StaticTl!.'>ts on their own for things like Pathos gain, there's onlyso much that they can do to make upfor Narrators' absence.
pacing theStory
than
It's
pw,h on
the accelerator. You can start by doling out cluesand informarion
through character
nme
Prolonging
price.
new events in the spot. However, instead of creatingan entirely new plot, you might
206
Cl1ap!er)even:)!o tellin
ing,corie, works \'Cry well 1(ynu han• a i:roupof Narrators whoarc tkx1ble, cr..-.ative nnd who
If you foresee the story ending early, there are way,ol rmlongmg it by <liscracc­ mg players. wemially, you inmxluce ,ut-plots m order to pull ch,1racter off the  bcaten path. If you have a chance, work out one or rwo ,ubplocs for every story.
Try not co overuse any p,micular devices for prolonging a story. The be,r way to  slow players down i, to pre,ent them with  omething new. Invent a bizarre new Ar­ tifact, or have a Doppelganger infestation. One of the more unusual tricks to u c while improvising b to create a set of events with no obvious explanation. Then li,ten to the expl:tnations your player.; propo,e ,ind choo onero1-,e the ca•e,or ba5e your explanauon on rhe theory you like be,t While this tactic may -.eem cheesy, some absolutely amazing stones can be developed this way.
escue 911
In Mind's Eye Theatre, the Storyteller and Narrators have only limited control over what occurs m the scory While y1,u can often predict human behavior to know where a ,tory might lead, chmgs never work out as planned. Players have a tendency to ignore old goals, creating new one, without ,l second thought. While such s1cua­ tions can he disconcerting, it\  not alway, a bad thmg.

Unforeseen plot cums are, m fact, whar Mind's Eye Theatre is all abour. No other game is so open or free. No other game 1, so full of possibilities and surprises. No other game lets player, be as creati\'e or have as muchcontrol. The trick is to u.se what the player, give you, instead of fighting with chem.
If players generate new plots, you can continue them in the next story, provid­ ingyou with new material upon which to build.Ii you let playel'5 run with what they come up w1ch, your story may go on for some time. While the story may go off on a cangent, headed toward no foreseeable conclusion, you can usually apply finesse to
work	knowing when to say "no" and when to stop
descruc.t1ve subplots m their tracks. The rule of rhumh 1s, if a new direction aJJs Jepch m the tory, encerrnins people anJ doesn't get m rhc way, let it run it, course A, with all thine,, though. r -ople can go too far The foU:1wing arc .,;ome si1,,'llS mdt­ cating that event, might be l(erttng out of control:
Characntrs begin ,mackmg everychmg that moves for no obvious reason.
There isexce;.si\'e character "Jeath" during a g-.ime.
A key antagonist 1s killed, Jisahled, captured or t>therwbc prevented from t-ecoming a key figure in the scory.
Important items or clues are Jc,troyed, discarded or stolen.
Gangs of Renegades numbering a dnzcn or mnre start hanging out in the Citadel and dictating Hierarchy ix1ltcy.
The  moral center of the game (i.e., the ,truggleagain t Oblivion) 1sdiscarded.
right. Once a player puts a plan into motion, you can add clements to his plan which cause 1t
problem,, mer, the
o hion
bc manhanJled bad, inco •,ome semblance of playability. Use a plot hammer too often, and player., will feel that they're being controlled too nghtly. Use it too sel­ dom, and characters can run amuck.
Good uses of the plot hammer include killing off problem characters, introduc­ in>,:a powerful outsider who'll forcecharacters to cease pointless internal squabbling, bringing in an overwhelming threat that dictates that everyone work together to srop it, or, in a last resort, stopping the game until you've had time to regroup and your player., have had a chance co calm down. Also, the downtime will allow you to 1nrrcxluce plot elements via e-mail or conversauons with players that will serve to prevent recurrences of trouble situations.
ngDown tne w
It's your responsibility to ensure that players are not a hazard to others, includ­ ing people who are not involved in the game. It is mandatory that the normal rules of social interaction be adhered to strictly. Most players will probably work with you in this regard. However, from nme to time, there are those who prove disrupuve to other players and rhe environment where the game 1s being played.
Many ttmes thisdisruption occurs by accident. However, there may be instances when players get out of hand on pu . If such a s1ruation presents itself, it's not considered bad taste co remove the offender from your game. It is, after all, yourgame and your creation. The integnty of your game should be preserved for the enjoyment of other players. The integrity of the game should also be upheld m the minus of those whodo not play or understand Mind's Eye Theatre.

esolving uments
AsStoryteller (anJ to a lesser degree a, a Narrator), ynu have final word in any dispute that may arise between players. IL 1s your rc:;ponsihilicy to maintain peace between players to insure the :.mooth !low of the scory and its enjoyment by all.
Players shoulJ be given the opportunity to speak their mind\ on a situation in which they Jisagree. While it ts suggested rhat you listen to a player's grievances, reml!mber that your decision is final and muse he adhered to by all concerned. It's besc to combmc an understanding car anJ a firm hanJ. Keep your wm about you, and your players will respect you for,r. lfa player's problems prove a disruption Lothe story, they may have to be put on hokl and dealt with after rhe night's session.
Breakingthe ules
The rules are yours to use and abuse as you see fit. The novelist Richard Bach once smd, "Argue for -,our limiumons, and sure enough, tlu.ry're -,ours." Do nor limit yourself to this set of rules. Your concept of the way Oblivion should be played may change constantly. Bend or break the rules to your liking. The rulesserve the story; the story does not serve the rules. If you come upon a situation that isn't covered by the rules, don't panic - improvise. lmprovi ing rules involves applying common sense to a situation. Don't be afraid of going against the grain in such cases. By playing this game, you are exploring a new frontier in roleplaying. It is your duty ro
rest the limits of Mind's Eye Theatre.
chanter Eight:
The ijsen
Cnaracter Creation
tus to allow her co cross the Shroud and reanimate her corpse. Obviously, there are some differences between a Risen anJ a
--,
combination average
Risen
Senst::;. These abilities cansomeumes be a
it impossible for him co ignore the pam and suffering of the waking world. A Risen's Shadow
not
and the regul doubled
Rather, it exists ouo;ide of the host body in an object (or an animal) callt.-<l a Conduit.
o livion
■
;t
"1I4f1.1-...
Generally one of the wraith's most unportant Feners, the Omduit normally holds the Risen'sShadow (though it can stillcommunicate telepathically with the Psyche). How­ ever, when Catharsis occurs, it is the P -yche that is imprisoned in the Conduit; the switch is instantaneous. A Conduit has LO Health Levels, just like a Risen, but ifa Con­ duit isdamaged, the Risen's ability co heal is seriously compromised.
The Risen also have one additional Arcanos to learn - Fascinate - which only they can µos.,;es:;. Artifacts andStatus have no meaning for the Risen, as Artifacts don't travel to or function in the Skinlands,anda wraith'sScarusat the local Necropolisdoesn't mean anything co vampires, werewolves or mortals in the society of the Skinlands.
To make up for the fact that they lose certain basics of wraithly existence by crossing the Shroud, the Risen are able learn vampiric Disciplines (See Laws of the Night). However, only Celerity, Fortitude, Obfuscate and Potence can be learned or purchased through the use of Negative Traits (Higher levels can be purchased with experience). On the other hand, certain Arcanoi are denied to the Risen.

Arcanoiand Disciplines
Starting andpro i ited Arcanoi
ny Risen must have Puppetry as one of his initial Arcanoi, and musealso cake at least basic levels of Inhabit or Embody. These Arcanoi aren't necessarily helpful to a Risen in his trans• Shroudal existence. Instead, they represent the knowledge needed to become Risen in the first place. This leaves a new Risen with an additional Arcanos sloe to fill; Disciplines, how­
--, ever, can only be purchased wiLh Negative Traits.
Some of the Arcanoi don't function as well or are distorted upon entering the Skinlands, while ochers just plain don't work. Risencan useCastigate, Fatalism, Flux, Intimation, Keening, Mncmosynis and U ry, all of which function nor­ mally in the Shnlands. Argos, Embody, Phantasm, Moliace, Outrage and Puppetry can­ not be used at all by a Risen. This holds true even if the wraith knew those Arcanoi before Rising. Theysimply don't function in the Skinlands. Pandemonium and Inhabit can be used by Risen, but at a cost ofone additional Pathos per use. Arts which arefree to wraiths in the Shadowlands costone Pathos for a Risen, and so on.
A wraith who is Shellriding does not actually dissolve into the machine being "ridden" or controlled. Rather, che effect occurs from a distance, though another wraith with Inhabit can detect the Risen's influence. While certain Inhabit Arts may seem useless to a Risen, they must all be learned in order nonetheless. (Developer's note: Before Lhe howling starts, it's a question of theory vs. practice. Besides, the Risen will probably be returning co the Shadowlands at some point, and the knowledge acquired as a Risen will be useful then.)
There is no Guild for the Risen-exclusive Arcanos Fascinate, buL many Risen simply seem to acquire the knack as they wander the Skinlands. As becoming Risen is strictly against Hierarchy law, even wraiths who Rise and then return to the Shadowlands don't pass on thetr knowledge. However, chat doesn't keep new Risen from learning Fascinate on che1r own.
r·
(nater[il1t:Il1e i en
fascinate
Fascinate is the ability ofsome Risen to affect the minds of the Quick by msen­ ing some thought or compulsion that the person cannot banish. It issimilar to Keen­ ing, although it works with simple thoughts instead of pure emouon. This ability is frequently used when a Risen's Passions can be fulfilled by coercing a mortal into perfonning some action he might be already inclined to take.
The use of Fascinate is a very intimate interaction with a mortal. To use Fasci­ nate, che Risen must make eyecontact with the target, and the abilicy is easier to use if the two are not alone. Also, Fascinate will not cause the mortal ro do anything contrary to his Nature. Instead it is a tool of persuasion and manipulation, wearing on the target's nerves and will until he complies.
innate A ilities
Deja Vu: Most of us are surrounded by the faces of strangers, many of which never wonn their way mtoour recollection. By using thisability, the Risencan make a person remember having seen her before, regardless of whether this is true or not. To use Deja Vu, the player makes a Social Challenge against the target. If the

target had seen the Risen before, and the Risen was successful in her challenge, the target will remember the Risen. If the target has never seen the Risen before, and she was successful in her challenge, the target will feel that he knows her from some­ where, though he can't quite remember where. ln the latter instance, the target is at down one Trait on all Social Challenges with the Risen.
Tuning In: By whistling or humming a sequence of notes, a Risen can im­ plant the tune in the target's mindso that shecan't get it out of her head. The victim will have trouble concentrating on tasks, and may well be driven to act odd acts in order co gee the song out of her head.
The player must enter an Extended Social Challenge with the carger. Each suc­ cess represents an hour during which rhe target will hear the nme m the back of his mind when not act1vely concentrating on something else. The effect of thisconstant background noise is to make the target down two Traics on all Social Challenges during the Arcanos' duratton.
Oolivion	1
I	■
Distraction: The wraith can make the target suddenly remember something else chat she has to attend to, breaking her concentration, if only briefly.
Distraction essentially work:. as a methml of interrupting another'$ social interac­ tions or challenges. At an appropriate (or inappropriate) moment, the Risen enters a Social Challenge against the target. Thischallenge supersedes any challenge the target may already be involved m, as1t isan attempt to  break the target's concentration.
lf the Risen wins the challenge, the target becomes distracted and aucomata­ cally fails at whatever task she was attempting to accomplish. If the targer was in­ volved m some sort of challenge, she loses the challenge unless she spends a Will­ power Trait to counceract the Arcanos' effects.
Basic
Remembrance: This arr insures that the target will remember a simple though, phrase, object or errand. A Risen whohas mastered thisan:need never fear that those he
uses1t on will forget those simple thingl' like However, Remembrance is  limited to
numbers, umbrellas or addresses. will nor serve to
target remember any	that
Thisarc is not alwayobviously useful, but with a little bit quiteeffective. Using Remembrance co insert a particular address
has no previous knowledge or memory can be an excellent way to lure the target to thatsire. Conversely, a Risen witha Fetter in danger may use Remembrance cocause
the individual co remember something	the Fetter that makes it worth
The player enters an Extended
with the
The number
determines the	time chat the target will focuson this matter.
With
the
will remember for around five minutes
With
the target will remember	day. With threesuccesses, the target will remem­
week, while with
This arc coses one Pathos Trait.
Charge of Duty:The Risen can
the
will remember
her target a simple,
month or more.
that he must cake co heart,solongas it is both relevant and in tune with her Narure.
a woman who feels guilty over the	that

lx.-cn neglt.-cting her	The idea thatsheshould bespending time with her
instead of drinking at bars and clubs could be successfully implanted in this notion is already in her mind. In acruality, chis art is a method of caking urges and making them conscious (as well as borderline compulsive)
The player enters an Extended Social Challenge with the target. The number of succ s reflects how embedded and the sucngth of the idea in the target's mind. There is no Pathos cost for this an.
intermediate
DrivingUrge:With chisarc the Risen
The
limit. A Risen with the
obsesive behavior,similar to LadyMacbeth's w hmg the imaginary
mortal, related the target.
her hands,or
hesropped by a pamcular building to checkon it
Cater fi k ll1e isen
Usmg Dnvmg Urge requires the investment of one Willpower Trait and one point of Pathos, and gives the Risen a point of Temporary Angst. To implanr an ohsess1on, che Ri5en enter, an Extended Social Challenge with rhe target. Every success 1mplantmg the idea into the target' mind more and more thoroughly.
Obsessions implanted by Driving Urge do not ever wear off, but they can he removed through creative uses of Dominate or Mnemosyms.
Advanced
Target Lock: Target Lock fixates its subiecc on one ,rem or person co the point of mania. It can create stalkers out of mild-mannered accountants or focus normally level-headed citizens on the riniest minutiae. It creates in its targer an obses. mn chat mirrors the Risen's own.
Target Lock coses one Pathos point and one Willpower Trait. Furthem1orn, the Risen alsoacquires rwoTemporary Angst pomcs. To use thisart, the Risen must enter an Extended Social Challenge with the target and vocalize the obsess10n she is attempting to insinuate intO her victim's mind. Each success further implancs and entrenches rhe ohsession while alsodetermining how complex the implanted obsession can be.
A mortal or vampire acting unJer Target Lock will seem smgle-min<led and obsessive, paying no heed to much besides the implanted impulse driving him. Such behaviors will be obvious tO anyone who knows the target, but lictle shon of Mnemosyn1s or Dominate will serve co "cure" the victim.
Most denizens in the World of Darkness have no idea as co Fascinare's exist­ ence, and will put down its effects to either ocher sores of supernatural meddling or mundane mental disorders.
learning YampiricDisciplines
The	Risen have the ability co learn certain vampinc Disciplines. Some even have an innate talent for one Discipline or another. Not all Discipline:, can he learned; th<)se chat can are Celerity, ForuruJe, Obfuscate and Pocence. It should be noted that, due co the nature ofL1fesighc, Risen cannot use Obfuicate to hide from other wraiths. Instead, Lifesight will show wraiths the auraof an Obfuicated Risen(or,forthat matter, vampire). Instead of using blood to fuel chese ab1lines, Ru;en use Pathos. When a Risen's Shadow is in control, 1t may use any Discipline that the wraith knows, fueling them
with Angst instead of Pathos.
Risen character.. only rarely stare with Disciplines instead of Arcanoi, but rhey can learn Disciplines as theygo along.

The senandtheConduit
he mosr essential thing to a Risen is his Conduit, che 1cem or thmg that houses his Shadow. Each Conduit 1s unique ro each Risen. Most often the Conduit is one of the Risen\ Feccer.;, something chat exerceJ a particularly powerful hold over the wraith in life. The Conduit 1s usually a small, portable 1rcm, as the Risen must always have the Conduit nearby. As chis is rather
;	 .,... ....,..g:;a:::::._. se z- t,_, "r  -..
I	Obhion
difficult if the Fener in question is something as large and immobile as an office building, things like pocketwatches, coins, photot,TTaphs, pieces of Jewelry and the like are mosc common. Some Ri en decide ro use animals as their Conduits. These ca= are rare indeed, as it takes a talented and willing Puppeceer to replace the animal's spmt with the wraith's Shadow.
An item becomes a Conduit when the wraith passes out of che Shadowlands and becomes a Risen. At this time, the wraith's Psyche should find itself in its old body, while its Shadow should take up residence in the Conduit. It doesn't always happen this way; metimes things get reversed. Plus, there's nothing m keep the two from flip-flopping places during Catharsi .
If a person other than the Risen holds rhe Conduit, the Risen can use Arcanoi on that person that normally require physical touch or eye contact. The Arcanos m question must be one that the Risen can nonnally use m the Skinlands, such as Usury or Fascination.
Tc's almost ironic, given the battle of wills wraiths must constantly fight with theirShadows, that the first thing a Risen mu,t do is fmd her Conduit, which holds the consciousness of her Shadow. Without 1t her Corpus will slowly disintegrate, generally over a period of a few days.Strangersrill 1sthe fact that thesame holds true for the Shadow, for when the Shadow 1s in control, it possesses the body and the Psyche 1s trapped in the Conduit. However, the Shadow 1s unable co destroy the Conduit, and will suffer unbearable pain ifseparatcd from 1t.
A Risen must protect his Conduit at all umes. If the Conduit is damaged, the Risen's link co theShadowlands is compr<>mised, and her ability tofunction and heal in the Skinlands is jeopardized. As such, most Risen are exceedingly protective of their Conduits. Ir is one of the ironies of the Riscn's experience that they usually spend most of chdr energies protecting rhat which houses their Shadows. Each Con­ duit has 10 Health Levels, corresponding to a R1sen's own 10 Corpus Levels, regard­ less of the Conduit's physical form. A Conduit in the form of a glass pendant is no lessdifficult to destroy than one in the form ofa steel pencil case or a blackcar. If the Conduit is damaged, the Risen is abo wounded; a Risen can have no more Corpus Levels than its Conduit has Healrh Leveli,. A Risen whose Conduit has taken seven levels of damage can haw no mure than three Corpus Leveb until he repam, his Conduit. If aggravated damage is <lune to the Conduit, the Risen will also take aggra• vared damage equal to that <lone to rhc Conduit. When all 10 Health Levels are gone, the Conduit is destroyed, and the Risen falls intoa Destrucuon Harrowing.

A Conduit cannot be healed or repaired nonnally. In order to repair the Con• duir, rhc Risen must spend a Willpower Trait and a Pathos point and gain a Tempo­ rary Angst point. No more than one Heald, point may be restored to a Conduit per day, and the Risen must Slumber before anempting any further repairs.
It is very important for a R1Sen to keep his Conduit nearby. Not only is damage to the Conduit a grave risk for any Risen, but mere separation from the Conduit b damaging. If a Risen isseparated from hisConduit, he will ob:sess on recovering it to rhe exclusion of all else, and with good reason. For each hour the Risen has no physical contact with his Conduit, he losesone ll·vd of Pathos. That las, cannot be
recovered until lw is able co ger in contact with his Conduit once more. Indeed,
without his Conduit, it is impossible for a Risen to harvest Pacho:. ac all.
cl1atercillt:1ne e1i  -
start to decompose at the rate of one u,rpus Level per day.1l1is damage cannot be healed, and doe;; affect his ability in challenges. If the Condu1r 1s not recovered before his Corpus reaches zero, his Psyche 1mmediacely plunges into Oblivion with­ out even the last chance of a Destruction Harrowing.
Health,Combatand the isen
he bodiesof the Risen are dead.Theydo not tirenormally,chough Ri n mayseek Slumberforother reasons. Immune to chc necCJ>Si­ ticsof mormlexistence, Risen do not need ro car or drink, nor do they breathe. In addition, Ru.en are immune to extremes of tem­ per-acure, foelmg neither heat nor cold. Unlike vampires, they do not have to worry about their blood freezmg (most Risen are filled with embalming fluid, a.k.a. antifi-eczc, anyway).
Risen alsodo not feel pain the way livmg creatures do. They register the sen.,a­ tion of pain, but it doesn't occur co their brains chat they should mind. Pain is .i c.liscanr sensation to a Risen, and this enables them to continue functioning long after suffering damage char would leave even a vampire whimpering on the floor in
Oolivion
agony. Only aggravated damage done Lo a Risen or her Conduit will produce actual, immediate pain. (Note: Risen will also feel very uncomfortable if they ingest any­ thing, though the sensation is more akin co incapacitating nausea than pam.)
Risen can be deadly m combat. Physical pam does not slow them much until the point where theysuffer actualstructural damage. While Risen do feel pam man abstract way, it is merely sensory mput to them as opposed to cnpplmg agony. A broken arm does not mean incense pain to a Risen; 1tsimply means that the arm in question may no longer bend well enough to be useful ar the moment. Furthermore, smce Risen are capable of such rapid healing, even shattered limbs and the like rarely slow them down for long, so long as they have Pathos upon which codraw.
Only a few things cause a Risen aggravated damage: fire, werewolf claw and teeth, and vampire fangs and claws from the useof Protean.Silver, holy water,garlic and other traditional means of defending oneself against a supernatural bemgdo nor cause aggravated damage to Risen, nor do regular rounds of ammunition.

senandDamage
Since pain will nor incapacitate her, a Risen will nor suffer a penalty ro any of her Physical Challenges or actions when she has taken damage unless that damage 1s aggravated. After all, a bullet ro rhe gut 1sonly a h1gh-veloc1ry impact when incemal bleeding and ruptured orgam are no longer concerns. On the other hand. a Risen
who's had her leg muscles carhomzed by a bath from a flame-thrower will n0t be able to move effecrively until healed. In most cases, though, a Risen is capable c>f con­ rinuing ro fight full cilt until her body literally falls apart.
The health of a Risen i measured by her Corpus ranng, effectively giving her up to ID Health Levels. A Risen's Corpus ratmg corresponds to rhe health of her hody. Damage LO a Risen's Corpus can be healed by spending Pathos, and a Risen is
Chater[i lit:1ne i en	,
capable of restoring one Corpus pomt per tum. If a Risen 1s wounded while her Shadow is LD control, rhe Shadow can effect healing by spending Angst instead of Pathos.
If a Risen losesall her Corpus Levels but still has Pathos, she is considered co be
unconscious, and will lie unmoving until such a time asshe is able to heal her Cor­ pus. During th1.s apparently quiet time, the Risen must makea Stauc Challenge, a a biner struggle for control is goingon between the Psyche and the Shadow. The win­ ner of the challenge will take control of the body when the struggle 1s over; the loser is banished ro the Conduit. If the player wins, che Psyche mamtams its hold on the body; if she loses, the Shadow rakesover. Sometimes the Psyche will even voluntar­ ily relinquish control to the Shadow if the Shadow appears to have a better chance of extricating their shared Corpus from whatever predicament iris now m.
The length of time a Risen is unconscious varies. When determining how long h1, character will be out, rhe player must emer an Extended Static Physical Chal­ lenge. The number of successes gained in the Extended Challenge determines how quickly the Risen awakens. With five or more successes, the Risen is only uncon­ scious for a minute; with four successes, the Risen 1sout for three mmutes; with three successes, the Risen is unconscious for five minutes; with twosuccesses, it rakes 10 minutes for the Risen to become conscious again; with one success, a Risen can come co in an hour; with no successes, the Risen needs six hours of game time to recover.
An unconscious Risen is indistinguishable from a corpse, and may well becarted off ro a morgue before anyone realizes the mistake.
A Risen who has burned all of her Pathos but retains at least one le\'d ofCor­ pus undergoes Catharsis. When mcommand, the Shadow draws upon the untouched reserves of Temporary Angst co fuel her actions. Many hunters who thoughr LhaL they'd worn down a Risen to a "safe" level have experienced unplcasanr - anc.l fatal

- surprises. le is one thing for a hunter ro deal with a weary, dispassionate Risen, entirely another to face a Risen controlled by a bloodthirsty and potent Shadow.
If a Risen loses all her Corpus Levels and Pathos, her tenure as a Risen has ended, and her boc.ly will revert to che state it was in before the wraith became a Risen. Complete destruction of a Risen's heart or bram will also desrroy her, though this cask 1s easier said than done. Once a Risen is destroyed, her Psyche plunges
r 4		Obli\ion
.1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! •
straight into a De!'truction I!arrowing. If she survives chis, she return, to the ShadowlanJs anJ cnn no long.:r hecome Risen. If he fails, she 1s utterlyannihilated.
slumoer an Healing
Since Risen have physical hodies and cannot fade into their Fetters, they have difficulty Slumbering. In order co achieve Slumber, a Risen must hem physical con­ tact with one of has Fetter:; for 1he full eight hours of Slumber. If contact is broken hefore rhe eight hour,Slumbering normally cake:;, the Risen will wake prematurely and wall not gain the full benefit of his re.t.
The benefits of Slumbering are reduccJ for Risen.To healnom1al damage through Slumber, n Risen must enter an Extended Static Physical Challenge with a tie treated as a (os,,.md thereby stoppinf.!funher benefits. One Corpu:. Level is regained for t."llch succe:.:.ful challenge.
Otherwise, nom,al damage can be healed at a rate of one Pathos Trait per level.
Aggravated daJllasle can be healed in the same manner that normal wraiths use.
If a Riscn's Conduit ilo dotroyc<l, whichever of the wraith's personalities was inhabiting it ac the time is de,;rmye<l as wdl. The remaining peoonaliry in the ani­ mated body is now free of the other half, though only for the relatively few houn; it will take co decompose.
TravelBetween tne Worlos
ome Risen are strong enough to travel back ,md fonh between the Skmlands and the Shadowlan&,. Such travel is risky, and comes at a high price, hut there are those who are willing to pay when it suits their purposes. If a Risen wbhe,; to return for whatever reason to the Shadowlands, she would be well ad­ vised co find a safe place to store her body for the duration of her journey. Returning to the Shadowlands, he will leave her hody in the Skinland where n hegim decomrosing naturally.
The physical represcnration ot the Riscn's Conduit remains m the Skinland bur the Shadow reintegrates with the Psyche. To travel m the Shadowlands, a Ri cn must spend rwo points of Patho.-.and then make a Static Physical Challenge. If she is succes:;ful,she returns co the ShaJnwlands and gams a point ofTemporary Angst. To return co the Skmlamls, ·J R1 cn visiting the Shadowlands mu:,t once iigain attempt
(haptertilit: jhe isen
to meld with her body using Skinriding. ln addition, she must again spend two Pa­ thos points to break through the Shroud and make another Static Physical Chal­ lenge. If the challenge 1s unsuccessful, the return to the Skinlands is successful, bur the Psyche will fmd icself in the Conduit and the Shadow will assume control of the shared body. Also, the Shadow will gain one point of Temporary Angst from the Psyche losing the challenge.

Sparkof Deathforthe  sen
hile the character creation process for a Risen is mosdy identical to that for a wraith, there are a few differences tacked onro the end. Risen do not get Backgrounds, nor do they get Influences.
On a slightly different level, there is the question of ap­ pearance. The Risen are physical beings, and their appearance is tied co their body. The wounds that killed a Risen will ap­ pear asscars on her body. A player who is taking a Risen char­
acter needs to decide if others will be able to sec the scars of her death or whether they are hidden from view. She also need to decide what her Risen character looks like: ls she still wearing the half-decomposed clothes that she was buried in1Is her skin a light-blue/whitish tint from having embalming fluid in her veins and being buried for a while? All these appearances are important coallow roleplaying to flour­ ish between other players and yourself.
Becoming sen
Existing wraith characters may choose, with Storyteller permission, to become Risen. Assuming the wraith meets all of the Arcanos requ1temenrs, she can petition a Storyteller to become Risen. If her character's body is still more or less intact, and she canconvince herShadow (played bya Narrator) that crossing the Shroud would be a good idea, the only thing standing in the way of Rising 1s a Static Physical Challenge, along with the investment of two Pathos and one Willpower Trait.
Mind you, the Shadow will dnve a hard bargain for its cooperation, anythmg from beingguaranteed "frolic" time to the desrruccion of a single Fetter. While most Shadows would love the opportunity to do damage in the Skinlands, they will play hard co ger and attempt to wring as many concessions as possible from the Psyche
before relentmg.
Cnarter Nine:Otners	1
chapter Nine: Others
Humans
W/u:u illf wanied was: consoloaon
£he hand of mangers, help for pain
What wewanted 1.vas: w be sure no friends were lost m vain
-   OysterbanJ, "All That Way For This''
ortal humans are an es.,;ential element of Oblivion. If nothing else, they'reall potential ghost:,. Moreimporcancly, theyhelpdefine wraiths' Passionsand Fetters. Without loved onesto protect, murderers todent with, contractor.; seeking co tear <lown Haunt:,, friends to ru.sist and enemiestobedevil, wraithslose much of their purpose and <lefinitmn.
With that in mm<l, it's vital to have plenty of human-. many game ofOblivion.Charactellican later"graduate"to become wraiths
1f they wish (though the focus should be on staying alive, after all), bur in the meantime
Both players and Narrators should be involved m the human side of thingsas well.
HumanCharacter Creation
Creatinga human character operates m more or less the same fashion as wraith
olivion
-"l··T  ,,.
-- ---
.....--- -
.,,--
Willpower. They do not gee (ohv1ou ly) Arcano1, nor do they have Pacho , Angst, Backgrounds, Pru;sions, Fetter..or a Shadow. Humaru;do gee, however, InfluenceTra1ts, which demonstrate how much sway they have over the mortal world. In addition, monals can purchase Numma, special powers which allow them to exert a bit of supernatural influence of their own.

Note: If you arc intending to cross Oblivion over with Masquerade or ocher Mind's Eye Theatre games, you may wish rouse the Hunter creation rules m An­ tagonists, p. 34 instead of the mortal creation rules given here.
ii·
•ll!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Cna ter Nine:Otners!!!!!!!!!!!!!•I·
Characters may expend Influence Traits co accomplil.h goals relating to a specific
aspecr of mortal society. Many Influences, such as Street and Underworld, perform Simi­ lar functions, but generally one will be more efficient at performing the task m que5tion. Set by the ScoryteUe.r, the difficulty of a cask equals the number of Traits char must be
expended to accomplish the cask, and can besubject tO sudden change depending upon circumstance.The suggestedguideline listedalongwitheach area ofInfluence can change dramatically between chronic! oreven between sessions.
Sometimes a Narrator will require a challenge of some sort to represent the uncertainty or added difficulty involved when exercising Influence. Some uses of Influence may not acruaHy cost Influence rouse, but rather require that the player simply possess a certain level of the Influence in question.
To use Influence actively, you should explain to the Narrator what sort effect you wish to create.The Narrator then decides the Trait cost, the time involved (both real and m-game) and any tests required to achieve the Influence effect. Influence Traits used this way are temporarily considered tO have been expended, and are nor recovered until che next session. The effects of using Influence can be instantaneous and brief, or slow to manifest and permanent, depending on the nature of the ma­ nipulation and the degree of power the character wields.
Somerimes players will want to perform actions that do norseem to fall under any smgle Influence group, or which may require the use of multiple Influences. Say a character wants to open a nightclub in her city. Obviously, she will need Finance, but High Society and Media might be useful co stimulate interest and promote the
club as something really spectacular. Furthermore, what if the area targeted for her venture is not zoned for clubs? Bureaucracy could be useful in changing zoning, not to mention in acquiring the proper licenses and permits. Therefore, in certain cases, a Storyteller may decide that rwo or more types oflnfluence are necessary to accom­
plish a goal. Not only is this more realistic, but it alsoencourages characters to inter­ act more widely than they might have otherwise in order to obtain the Influences they need.
Humans can trade Influences witheach orher much like children trade baseball (or Arcadia) cards. These trades may be permanent or temporary. ln the case of permanent trades, the old owner erases the Trait from his sheet and turns over the appropriate Influence card (if your chronicle uses these) to the new owner. The new owner then records her newly acquired Influence Trait on her character sheet. Tem­ porary tradesof Influence occur whena human is merely doinga favor or loaning her Influence to someone else. In lhis case, the owner does not erase the Trait, but in­ stead makes a note chat it 1s no longer in her possession. The holder of the Influence Traic may use Lt immediately or hold onto to 1t until she feels she needs it. However, the original owner of the Influence Trait may no, regain the Trait until the current holder expends or voluntarily returns it.

Sometimes characters may wish to cry to counteract the Influence of other char­ acters. In such c es, irgenerally costsone Trait per Trait bemg countered.The char­ acter willing to expend the most Influence Traits (assuming she has them lO spend) achieves her goal; all Traits used in chis sort of conflict are considered expended.
In practice, the use of Influence is never instantaneous and rarely expedient. While a character may be able to, say, condemn any building in the city, 1t will nor be tom down that night. For sake of game flow, a Storyteller may allow trivial uses of
225
onlivion
Influence co only take half an hour. Major man1pularions, on the other hand, can become the cenrer of ongoing plots requiring several sessions to bring to fruition.
The guidelines below by no means limit the number of Influence TralCS that can be spent at one time or rhe degree of change a character may bring about. They are merely an advisory measure co help Storytellers adjudicate the costs of certain ac­ tions.
Actions followed by an asterisk(*) below indicate that their effects can gener­ ally be accomplished without expending an Influence Trait.
Bureaucracy
The  organizational aspects of local,stateor even federal government fall within the character's sphere of control. She can bend and twist the tangle of rules and regulations chat seem necessary to run our society as she sees fit. The character may have contacts or allies among government clerks, supervisors, utility workers, road crews, surveyors and numerous other civil servants.
Cost	Desired Effect
I	Trace utilicy bills*
Fake a hirth certificate or driver's license Disconnect a small residence's utilities Close a small road or park
Get public aid ($250)
Fake a death certificate, passport or green card Close a public school for a single day
Tum a single utility on a block on or off Shut down a minor business on a violation
ln1tiate a phone cap
Initiate a department-wide investigation Fake land deeds
Srart, stop or airer a city-wide program or policy
Shut down a big busine:;s on a violation Rezone areas
Obl1rerate records of a person on a city and county level
Arrange a fixed audit of a person or business
Cna ter Ntne: Otners
church
Even churches are not without politic.and inmgue upon which an opportunis, ric rerson maycapitalize. Church lnfluence usually only applies to  mainstream faith), such as Christianity,Judaism, Buddhism and the Islamic fa1th.Somerimes orher prac­ tices fall under the Occult influence. Contacts and allies affected by Church Influ­ ence include: ministers, bishops, priests, activists, evangelises, witch-hunters, nuns and various church attendees and assistants.
Cost	Desired Effect
I	Identify most secular members of a given faith in the local area Pas:; as a member of the clergy *
Peruse general church records (baptism, marriage, bunal, ere.)
2		Identify higher church members Track regular congregation members Suspend lay memben,
3
4
5
6
7
finance
Open or close a single church
Dip into the collecrion plate ($250)
Find the average church-associated hunter
Access t0  private information anu archives of church Discredit or suspend higher-level members Manipulate regional branches

Organize major protests
Access ancient church lore and knowledge &rrow or access church relics or sacred items Use the resources of a diocese
The world teems with the trappings of affluence and stones of the rich and famous. Humans with the Finance Influence speak this language of money and know where to find capital. They have a degree of access to banks, megacorporations and the truly wealthy citizens of the world. Such characters also have a wide variety of servants co draw upon, such as CEOs, bankers, corporare yes-men, financiers, bank tellers, stock brokers and loan agents.
k2il	Desired Effect
l		Earn money; learn about major transactions and financial events Raise capital ($1,000)
Learn about general economic trends*
Learn real motivations for many financial acrions of others
Trace an unsecured small account
Raise capital to purcha5e a small business (single, small ,tore)
Purchase a large business (a few small branches or a single large store or service)
Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some credit raring alterations)
I	Olllivion
5
6
Healt
Ruin a small business
Conrrol an aspect of citywide banking (shut off ATMs, arrange a bank "holiday")
Ruin a large business Purchase a major company Spark an economic trend Instigate widespread layoffs
In our modem world, a mynad of organizations and resources exists codeal with every mortal ache and ill, at least in theory. The network of health agencies, hospi­ tals, asylums and medical groups is subject to explmration by a human with Health Influence. Nurses, doctors, specialists, lab workers, therapists, counselors and phar­ macists are just a few of the workers within the health field.
QQil	Desired Effect
I	Access a person's health records
Use public functions of health centers at your leisure Fake vaccination records and the like
2
3
4
5
HigSociety
Access to some medical research records Have minor lab work done
Get a copy of coroner's report Instigate minor quarantines
Corrupt results of tests or inspections Aker medical records
Acquire a body
Completely rewrite medical records Abuse grants for personal use ($250)
Have minor medical research performed on a subiecr Institute large-scale quarantines
Shue down businesses for "health code violations" Have special research projects performed
Have people institutionalized or released
An lite clique of people exists, who, by virtue of birth, possessions, talent or quirks of fate, hold themselvei; above the great unwashed masses. High Society al­ lows the character to direct and use the energies and actions of chis exceptional mass of talents. Among their ranks, one can find dilettantes, the old rich, movie and rock stars, artists of all sons, wannabes, fashion models and trendserters.
Cost	De. ired Effect
I	Learn what is trendy
Learn about concerts, shows or plays well before they are made public
Cna ter Nine:Otl1ers
2
3
4
5
industry
Obtain "hard to get" tickets for shows Track most celebrities and luminaries
Be a local voice in the entertainment field
"Borrow"$1,000 as idle cash from rich friends Crnsh promising careers
Hobnob well above your sracion
Minor celebrity srarus

Get a brief appearance on a talkshow that's not about to hecanceled Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other high society gathering
The dark world of the Gothic-Punk milieu is built by pumping and grmdmg machinery and the toil of endless laborers. A character with the Industry lnfluence has her fingers in this pie. Industry is composed of union workers, foremen, engi­ neers, contractors, construction workers and manual laborers.
Desired Effect
I	Learn about industrial projects and movements
Have minor projects performed Arrange small accidents or sabotage
Dip mto union funds or embezzle perry cash ($500)
3
4
5
6
legal
Organize minor strikes
Appropriate machinery for a short rime Close down a small plant
Revitalize a small plant Manipulate large local industry
Cuc  off production of a single resource in a small region
There are those whoquier\y tip the scales, even m the hallowed halls of justice, and the courts, law schools, law firms and justice bureaus within them. ]nhabicmg these halls are lawyers, judges, bailiffs, clerks, DAs and attorneys.
Desired Effect
Gee free representation for small cases
Avoid hail for some charges Have minor charges dropped
Manipulate legal procedures (small wills,minorcontracts, coundaces)
Access public or court funds ($250) Get representation in most coun cases
Issue subpoenas Tie up court cases
Have most legal charges dropped Cancel or arrange parole
Oblivion
Close down all hut the mu,1 serious inveMiganons H,we deportation proceeding, held agaimt someone
Media
The  media \erves as the eyes and ear:. of the world. While few in this day and
:ige dlluht that the news is not cmrupred, many would be ,urpmed at who closes thc,e eye, and cover,, these ears from time to time.The medm entity b compo_,ed of ration directors, t>d1tors, reporter,, anchors, camerapeople, phl,tographers and radio personalmes.
C.Q.H	Desired Effect
Learn about rrcaking stories early Submit small amcle,, (within reason)
Suppress (but not stop) small articles or rer<ms Get hold of invest1gat1ve reporting tnformation
J
4
Occult
Initiate news inve,tigation,and reports
Get project fundingand waste 1t ($250) Access media production resources Ground stones and pro1ects
Broadcast fake ,rories (local only)
Mo,,t people are curious about rhe supernatural world and the variou,, groups and beliefs that make up the occult world, but few consider it anything but a hoax, a diver­ ion or a curio:,ity. They could not be farther from rhe truth. Th1i, Influence more than any other hir.s the Rcstle'1> close to homeand could very well bring humanity to itssenses
about just wh,1and what share:. this world with rhem. Among the occult community are cult lt:idcrs, alcemat1vc rd1giow. groups,charlatans, would-be occultistsarid New Ager.;.
Co t	Desired Effect
Contact and u,e common occult groups, practices Know some of the more visible riccult figures
z	Know anJ contact some of the more ob,cure occult figures Acce 'i re,,ources for moH rituals and rites
Know che general vicinity of certain supernatural entitie and po s1bly contact them (Kindred, Oarou, mages, mummies, wraiths, etc.)
Can acce:,s vical or very rare material components Milk impressionable wannabes ior bucks ($250) Access occult tomes and writings

Research a Ba,K R1rual
Rc-earch an lnrermediate Ritual
Access minor magic items Unearth an Advanced Rim1I
Rl-,-carch a new or unheard-of mual or rite from rom llr mentors
( apter Nine:Otl1ers	 -
police
"To procecr and serve" IS a popular motto among the chosen enforcers of the law. Bue these days, everyone can have reason to doubt the law's ahiliry to enact justice. Perhaps theyshould wonder whom the law defends, whom it serve:.and why. The Police Influence encompasses the likes of beat cops, desk Jockeys, prison guards, special divi­ sions (such asSWAT and homicide), detectives and various clerical posinons.
Cost	Desired Effect
Learn polu.:e procedures
Hear police information and rumors Avoid traffic tickets
Have license places checked
Avoid minor violations (first conviction) Get "inside information"
3
4
5
6
politics
Find bureau secrets
Oct copies of an investigation reporr
Have police hassle, detain or harass someone Access confiscated weapons or contraband Start an investigation
Get money,either from evidenceroomor as an appropriation ($1,000}
Have some serious charges dropped lnstitute major investigations Arrange setups
Instigate bureau mvestigarions
Have officers fired
Paralyze departments for a time Close down a major invesngation
Nothing ever gets done forstraightforward reasons any more. It's all who knows who and what favors can get paid off in the process. In other words, it's polit1Q. as usual, and there's a whole classof people who thrive in this world offavors and policy flacks. Some of these individuals include statesmen, pollsters, activists, parry mem­ bers, lobbyists, candidates and the politicians themselves.
Cost	Desired Effect
Minor lobbying
Identify real platforms of politicians and pames
Be in the know
Meet small-time politicians
Have a forewarning of processes, laws and the like Use a slush fund or fund raiser ($1,000}
Sway or alter political proJeCts (local parks, renovations, small construction)
Enact minor legislation
231
- -
;...,.. _;..'S:.'
·----	c
••
Dat<h careers of mmor politicians
Gee your candidate in a minor office Enact more encompassing legislature
Block the passage of major bills
Suspend major laws temporarily Use state bureaus or subcommittees
Usurp counrywide politics
8
Street
Subvert, to a moderate degree, statewide powers Call out a local division of the National Guard Declare a scare of emergency in a region
Disenchanted, du,enfranchised and ignored by their "betters," an undercurrent ofhumaniry has made its own culture and lifestyle to deal with the harsh lot life has dealt them. In the dark alleys and slums reside gang members, the homeless, street performers, petty criminals, prostitutes and the forgotten.
Cost	Desired Effect
l	Has an ear open for the word on the street
Identify most gangs and know thei.r turfs and habits
2
3
4
5
Transportation
Live mostly without fear on the underside of society Keep a contact or two in most aspects of street life Access small-time contraband
Often get insight on ocher areas of influence Arrange some services from sneer people or gangs Get pistols or uncommon melee weapons Mobilize groups of homeless
Panhandle or hold a "collection" ($250)
Respected amonggangs, can have a word in almost all aspects of their operations

Ger hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG Control a single medium-sized gang Arrange impressive protests by street people
The world is in constant monon, its prosperity relymg heavily on the fact that people and productions fly, float or roll to and from every comer of the planet. With• out the means ro perform chis monumental task, our "small" world quickly rerurm to a daunting orb with largt:, isolated stretches. The forces char keep this circulation in motion include cab and bus drivers, pilots, air traffic controllers, rravel firms, sea captains, conductors, border guards and untold others.
Desired Effect
l		A wizard at what goes where, when and why Can travel locally quickly and freely •
z
3
4
5
6
7
Underworld
(napter Nine:Otl1er
Can crack an unwary target 1f they use public tranbportation Arrange passage safe (or at least concealed) from mundane threats (sunlight, robbery, etc.)
Seriously hamper an individual's ability to travel
Avoid most supernatural dangers when rraveling (such as hunters and Garou)
Temporarily shut down one form of transportation (bu lines, ship, plane, train, etc.)
Route money your way ($500) Reroute major modes of travel Smuggle with impunity Extend control to nearby areas
Isolate small or remote regions for a short period
Even m the most cosmopolitan of ages, society hasfound certain needsand services coo que rionable to accept, and in every age, some organized efforr has stepped in to provide for thisdemand regardless of the risks. Among thisoften ruthless and dangerous
crowd are the likes ofh1rmen, Mafia, Yakuza, bookies, fencers and launderers.
Cost	Desired Effect
l		Locate minor contraband (knives, small-rime drugs, petty gambling, scalped tickets, etc.)
z
3
4
5
University
Obtain pistols, serious drug , stolen cars, etc. Hire muscle to rough someone up
Fence minor loot
Prove that crime pays (and score $1,000) Obtam rifle, shotgun or SMG
Arrange a minor "hit"
Know someone in "the Family" White-collar crime connections Arrange gangland assassinations Hire a demolition man or firebug Supply local drug needs
In an age where the quest for leammg and knowledge begins in schools, col­ leges anJ universitie . mformation becomes currency. University Influence repre­ sents a certain degree of control and perhaps involvement in these institutions. Within this sphere of Influence, one will find the teachers, professors, deans, students of all ages and levels, Greek orders and many young and impressionable minds.
Cost	Desired Effect
I		Know layout and policy of local schoob • Access to low-level university resources
o livion
Get	recorJs up to the high school level
Know a contact or rwo with useful knowledge or skills Mmor access co faciliuei.
Fake high school records Obtain college records
Faculry favors
Cancel a class Fix grades
Discredit a srudenc
Organize student protests and rallies Discredit faculty members
Acquire money through a grant ($1,000)
s	Falsify an undergraduate degree
Arrange major projects
Alter curriculum institution-wide Free run of facilities
Wraiths are incapable of possessing Influences. The one exception co this rule is wraiths who have become Risen (see Chapter Eight).

T efog
TI1e Shroud isn't all that separates humans and the Restless. In addiuon, there 1s somethmg called the Fog, which settles on the minds of humans who are not prepared to accept the existence ofwra,chs. Those mortals succumb co the effects of rhe Fog, which results in their rationalizing away anything supernatural they mighr have seen. After all, it makes so much more sense to decide that it was the wind swinging chat door open at midnight instead of a ghostly hand....
TI1e effects of the Fog arc as follows: Unless the human affected by wraiths succeeds at a Static Mental Challenge against 20 Traits (overbidding on the part of the Fog is alloweJ), she will attempt to rationalize any wraithly activiry she may have witnessed. Photographic evidence will be di.sm1ssed as doctored, eyewitness accounts will be ignored, and so forth if the human does not succeed on her Fog test.
Oncea human hasp1erceJ the Fog, sheno longer needs to test against it. As furasshe is concerned, the existence of wraiths has been proven. Nor do those who have been Attune..! with an Arcanos need to tel,l against the Fog; they know too well what 1s reallygoingon.
Numina
ome humans have powers that can't readily be explained. These are called Numina, anJ they can allow humans to affect wraiths as urely as wraiths can affect humans. Most mortals with Numim1 have only one area in which they have power. Hu­ mans can purchase Numina by spending Negauve Traits at character creation, and afterward they can be bought up with Expencnce at the same rare as Arcanoi.
Cl1apter Nine:Others
A human character should not haw Numina withour a g,l<1d fl a"<m, anJ ho:
hould ne\'er ha\'C more rhan one Numina without explicit Storytelh.-r rerm1'-sion.
Complete Numma dlxrtptioru. anJ sy,tetm can be found m Antagonist:.. If you want to use a str,ught Oblivion syi,tem, ,uh,titute W1llpowerTra1bfor Humamty.
TrouoleshootingNumina
resolved."
The.,e ·ue the sorts of situations everyone hat.::. ,mJ every<me encounter,. A few defininom can help resolve the confusionso that things likechb can beavoided.
Psychic Numina arc not magical in any way. They are products of cxcra-,cn• sory perception, and will not be detecred 1,  magic in anyone's aura. They are effcc• t1\'ely warded away by mo,t magical shield, set up co cover, hide or protect an area, object or ind1v1dual from observation or intrusion.
A Mental Challenge must occur II> p,ychically locate or cnv1s1on a wranh m general. A cla1rvoyanr would not be 1hle to locate or detect a Restless using En­ shroud.
In the ahtwc scenano, the St0ryrcllcr who am\'cs on the scene ,hould explain co the characters inside the room th:u they have detected nothing, and expbm ro the mortal that Numi.na c,lll be repelled hy magical wards.
The mortal might be allowed to engage in a Simple Test to hrcak through the ward, if chat i\ her ohiecuve. Ward, can often overbid character. 1f they are l'..itah• lished by smnc character of grear power, ,1nd rhesc details should be clanfied hcforc the game hegins.

Spectres
.	P	hed.uk reflecmm,of wraith!>, Spectresare Rc,tlcss
,.  •
i
the e shrieking crvanc.of Ohli\'mn exll>t to Jr.1g other, d111\ n co de,1ruction. Like Shadma,,, they can be ,uhtle or indirect about their goals, anc.l many can seem helpful - at fu,L
Spectre:; tend to come m two vanettc,: those who want
--	companion, m torment, who "'111 ek  w con\'crt \\Tanh, Ill
rhe1r cnuse, anJ thn11e who "mply wish co dc,trny. Ofrcn it's hard to  tell the difference herween the two until ,r's too late.
Spectre,come tn caste,, whichgenerally define their powersa.,well:1s their,rate,of mtnd Memhcrs ofonly four cmtes -  the D,)ppelgangcr;, Ncphwracks, Momnght :mJ
olivion
Striplin-canstar long in the ShadowlanJs, und Ncphwracb whocan doso are rare. Malfeans and Shad -s, the more powerful caHes, can almost never enter into the ShaJowlands, and arc only encountered in the Tempest ,,r l.ahyrinth.
Spectre Character Creation
The	pmces, for cre:mng a Spenre forOblivion is very similar to chat for creat• ing a wraith, with the following exceptions,
ShaJow Archetypes ,houlJ be used for Nature and Demeanor.
Instead of Pathos and Willpower, Spccrres get Angst (5 Trait.) and Being.
Spectres can rake both Arcanoi and Dark Arcanoi (see below).
Malfearu, Shades and mo,t IIJephwracks have no Feners.
Instead ofSh,1dows, Spectres ha\'e Psyches.
Spectres do not start with a Scarus Tmit, nor can 1hey purchase the Memo• riam or Eidolon backgrounds.
Doppelgange
The Spectres closeH to wraiths, Doppelgangers ,till appear as wraiths. They have most or all of their Fetters, and can pass for wraiths quite e:mly Many enjoy infiltrating Necropoli, selling rhc1r services as purvcrors of rare Arcanoi like Mnemosyni . Ooppelganger.,gain rhc normal number of Attribute and AbilityTraits for a starting character, as well a, six starting Arcanos/Dark Arcanos points. Player character wraiths who become Ooppelgangcrs keep their old statistic andgain rwo additional Arcano, Traits to spenJ on Dark Awmo1. Doppelganger,,can buy Status w1ch Negative Traits, hur can never have more rhan two Fetters.
Doppelganger.. are the lowest of the low (save one) in Spectre society, and are treated a such. If a O..,ppelgangcr receives an order from Shade or Nephwrack, he i, expeered to obey 1r.
Striplings
A scx:.1al ca te more than anyrhmg el e. the Smpling, are the Spectres of chil• dren.There are no defining Stnplmg characteristicsorhcr rhan youth and rehellion. There are Stripling 0..1ppelgangcr,, Nephwr;1cks, ShaJcs and Mortwights, all .:,1th• crcd together by a shar..-d hatred of their ·•elders."
The som ofStnplings thar Oblivion chamcters are likely to come across arc rcla• tively weak, as their m11rc powerful c.i,rematt!l> prefer to hang back in rhe Tempest.
(napter Nine:Others
Stripling,only have 6/4/2AttributeTr.iic.. to Jbtribute, with their Primary Tratt not being Phy,1cal. Smplings haveaccc , tostanJarJ wraith Arc11noi as well Dark Arcanm, and have five points co disrrihure among them. All Stripling, must have at  lea l the Basic Level of Shr,)ud-RenJmg, and can only buy Fetters by tak111g Nega­ tive Traits. Stripling, cannot take Statu .
Nep wracks
Nephwracks are Doppell('.lngersso thoroughly twisted byOblivion that they can no longer pass for wraiths. Even Moliate cannot ma:,k the dcprhs oi the deformity of their souls, hut Nephwracb coru.ider these tmnsformauon to bea sii,1of Oblivion':, bbsing. They are the caste above 0oppelgangers, and are the artbts, priest> and public wrvams of thel.al,ynmh.Otherthan theirappearance, Nephwracbscarcelydifferfrom Duppelgangcr-. Nephwracks ha\'e eight levebof Arcanoi and Dark Arc-anoi. However, they u:,u:illy have no Fetters. Ifa Nephwrack wish1.'l> to purchase a Fetter, Negative Traits mu:,t be used.

Mortwig ts
Monwighrs are mortals who died with such violence that they were claimed by Obliv10n at the11istantof theirdeath.TI1ey are largelyconfined to the Labyrinth and the Tempest. Though excelling as troop:, m direct ult,ng-Jmst Sryg1a, Momvights are the lowc:,t caste of Sp1."Ccral sc:1C1ery. However, as their numbers ,well, the Mortwights have begun to rebel against theirhonJs. LikeShades, Morrwightsarelimited to Dark Arcanoi; however, they have four levels to distribute among them as they choose. At lem one level must beinv ted in the Dark Arcano:.Tempc r-Weaving,at which Morrwighcs:ire especially skilled. Morrwii:hts can purch:l5e Fetters with Negauve Traics.
S a es
Shades pe onify D:irk Passion, and are the ,hock troop, of spectral society. Even Nephwrach bow before Shades, at least publicly. The highest c,1stc among spectres save the Malfeam, Shades were originally DevourcJ by Oblivion during a Harrowing, a Maelstrom or m the Tempest. Shades have access only co the Dark Arcano,, and have four levels co disrnbute among them. Sh:ides gain six different Dark Passions, and have access co unique Shade powers. Shades can never have Fecters. Shades are not limired to 10 Corpus Levels; most have at least 20.
Malfeans
Malfeans are the elder, ur-Spectrcs. Being, of enormous capabilities, they cycle through periods of long sleep, guiding Specm:s to frenzies of destruction through their Jreams Most slumber uneasily the Labyrinth, waking only rarely. However, even as they sleep, they plot and scheme against each other :ind reality as a whole, and on occasmn Spectres will find themselves acring against others of their kind, as one Malfean -.eeks to thwan another's aims.
Malfean,areso incrt.'11hly porenr th;it there1, no need m create scat1st1c.for chem.
Simply assume that whatever needs to bedone, theycan do-  should they awaken.
Spectre Traits
Spectres abo have innate abilities, but ones that areclearly tainted by Oblivion.
Deatbsense - Oblivion is the only sun that Spectres know, its black hght illuminating everything they see. Spectres' accunement to Oblivion's light allows chem co gauge the strength of a wraith's Shadow. Also, living people close codeath or people who have strong Dark Passions glow with Oblivion's sickened light. Vam­ pires bum brightly with it, making them visible to spectres with their Deachsense. To sense the Oblivion in another character, a Spectre makes a Static Mental Test. If he succeeJs, he can identify the rype of bemg hefore him.
Deathsight -Spectres' Deathsight is much more intense than wraiths' since their entire being revolves around Oblivion.The Shadowlands to chem are vast plac ofdesolation, an apocalyptic landscape ravaged under Oblivion's dark oppression. Colors are faded, sounds muffleJ, the weather is always overcast, and buildings ap­ pear decaying to the point of being panially collapsed. Wraiths and other Spectres appear skeletal, diseased or decayeJ.
Dimmed Senses - Spectres lack a wraith's heightened senses. If they were hypersensitive, the Tempest's violence would overwhelm chem to the point of mak­ ing chem helpless. This reduces any perception-based tests, giving the Spectre's op­ ponent the win in case of a tie if the Spectre is in the Shadowlands. In the Tempest, a \\'rat th would beoverwhelmed by its violence and tumult, and thissituation would be reversed.

Distance - Spectres are so far removed from life, they have an increased difficult} 111 crossing the Shroud (they lose in the caseof a tie in a Static Challenge). They are unable to see any mortals when they are in the Shadowlands. They can only see wraiths and other Spectres unless they possess the Dark Arcanos Shroud­ Rending.
Hive-Mind - All spectres are connected to the Spectral Hive Mind. This means chat they have access (at v;irying levels of efficiency) to everything every Spectre has ever known. In game tenru;, this means chat Spectres can go to a Story­ teller and receive information that their characters might not have known direccly. Obviouslt, this power should be limited for player character Spectres.
Rapacity - Spectres are souls whose emotions are so raw chat any Dark Pas­ sion grabs their attention. If the negativity bemg emoted is similar to their core Bemg, they must do a Static Mental Challenge to see if they give into their dark needs with wild abandon. If they lose, they immediately attack the wraith who set them off.
Angstano Being
Angst and Being Traits are, for a Spectre, equivalent co Pathos and Willpower m termsof their useand acquisition. Spectresstart off with five Angst points,similar to a wraith's starting Pathos. Also, Spectres regain Angst through their Dark Pas­ sions the same way wraiths gain Pachos from their Passions.
Being Tram, determine a Spectre's emotional essence an<l spiritual strength, as well as their self-control. Being Traits can be used to power certain Dark Arcanoi.
}
Cna ter Nine:Otners
They can also be used to stave off Rapacity; a Rapacious Spectre can spend a Bemg Trait and avert losing control.
Each Spectre must pick a core negative emotion for her Being. Thi core emo­ tion defines her personality and also serves as the basis for attacks of Rapacity. Ex­ amples of core Bemgs include wrath, greed, pride, lust, envy, gluttony or hate
Spectres start off with three Being Traits. They can re-earn their Being Traits by roleplaying their Natures, Just asa wraith regains her Willpower Traits by bemg true to her.;.
Dark passions
Spectres are primanly mouvatcd by thetr Dark Passions. Like wraiths, Spectres re­ ceive four different Dark Passions to choose, unless modified by their caste. Dark Pas­ sionsaregenerally expressed as a sentence derailing the meaning of the Passion, followcJ by a one-word summation of the pamcular emotion involved; for example, Destroy the Hierarchy (Wrath), or Advance the decay of the Shadowlands (Malice). Dark Passions are alsooften directed at former Fetters the Spectre may have held as a wraith.
Corpus
Spectres have 10 levels of Permanent Corpus, Just as wraiths do, and poten­ tially up to 10 levels of Temporary as well. With one exception, Shadow-Eaten gain and lose Corpus in the same way, that wraiths do. However, those Spectres nor pos­ ses:,ed of the Dark Arcanos Larceny cannot heal aggravated damage.
DarkArcanoi
hilesome Specaes can use the basic wraithly Arcanoi, there1s a whole set of powers reserved for Spectres alone. The e are referred coas Dark Arcano1, and are used by the Shadow-Eaten m the1r never-ending campaign to bring about Doomsday. Be-

,,GI low are some of the more common Dark Arcanoi.
shroua- enaing
With this Arcanos, a Spectre can learn to see the Skinlands on the distant side of the Shroud. Unless a Spectre knows Shroud-Rending, the Shadowlands will al­ way beempty to her save for wraiths and other Spectres. Once this Arcanos is hers, the Spectre can witness mortals going about their Jaily lives and see what effect she has upon them. Shroud-Rending allows the Spectre to see through the Shroud; the reverse does not hold true. Nihils form in areas where this Arcanos is used frequently.
innate Abilities
Hold Back the Curtain: This art allows the Spectre to extend her acriv1ty m the Skinlands pasr the scandard duration of an Arcanos. It grants no other ability.
The player must make a Staric Physical Challenge in order coextend her con­ tact with the Skmlands for an adJitional cwo minutes.
....;._
o livion
Thre hold: Thi artcannot qun,·cro,, rhechre,hold of perception between the lands of the Quick and chc Dead. The character can see the Skinhmds and its inhabitant usif througha chicle fOI!, hut cannot hear event,, nor interfere with chem.
The player mu,r m.1ke an Extended Static Physical Challenge. The numher of successful challenges indicate, the number of minute, rhcSpectre can peer through the Shroud ac the Slcinlands around him.
Basic
Echoe,,:With chisan, the Spectre cnn ht-arfaint natchl-sof '>OUnJ from thl"Skinlan . Soundquality is;1(ways poor, withd1Stortcd, echomg voicesanJ fluctuating voluml"the norm. The player must make a Static Meneal Challenge, prefcrahly m the v1cimry of a
Nihil. Generally only snippets of conversation c,m be heard a.s through a haJ, hol­
low--,ounding phone connection filled with static. If no one is speaking when the Spectre choose, coeaVt.'Sdrop thmugh rhc Shroud, she inm:ad hear.; whatever amhi­ ent oound 1s prcdommanr in the corre•ponding locatmn in the Skinland,. WithoUl thb nrt, a Speece cannot hear anything gomg on m the Skmlands.
Fleeting Glimp,es: Thb art allow, a character to see n small area of the Skinlandsfor a hrief time.
A Stauc \ilencal Challenge must he made hy the Sr,!ctre. A successful chal­ lenge md1cates that the Spectre can see clearly the area of the Skmlamb around him. le cosrs one point of Angst co use chi, power.
intermediate
Vtrtuality: With1hi.,art,the Spectrecan cle1rlyseeanJ heare\'entsin rheSkinlan<b through the Shmud, a:, ifcombmmg the sk1lb contained w1chm the rwo prec,...Jing abili­ ties of thlS Arcinos. By making a succe,,,ful Static Mental Challenge and spending an An r pomt, the Spectre can comhme borh che B "'' am. ofShroud-Rmding.
Advanced
Transparent Memories: The culmmacion ofShrc,ud,Rending is the ability ro perceive the Skinlands with ra20r-edge clanry. All senses can register rhc Skinlands and us inhahitanr:;, although the Spectre1sStill beyond cheShrouJ:-ind cannot phy,i­ cally mteract with mortals w1thouc using :1dditional Arcan,ii.
To use Transparent Memories, the Spectre must make a Stllt1c Physical Chal­ lenge1( rryingco perceivo: going-ons through the Shroud. Thisserw, bt>,t a, a method for eavesdropping or targenng other Arcanoi.
The other u.se for this power is a limired foml ofTelep-,llhy.To do chis. the Specrre make!> a Mental Challenge lgain,r lus target. This arc costs two poinrs of An!:'t and a Being Tm1t. I( successful, the Specrre can ask rhe target three ye:;/nl)questions.

Contaminate
The Dark Ar..-ano.- Contaminate b similar to rhe wr.11th Arcano, C-i,c1gnte, 1n rhar it allow,; the user ro commune wirh the Shad,iw. S1milanries end there. Con• caminate is used hy Spectres to commune with Sh;1Jowi. of wraiths,:md ro wmer and
cl1a ter Nine:Otl1ers
feared and Jdmir,:d D.irk Arcanoi, as ii allow Spectres to damn othe by rnfocring them with Oblivion.
innate A ilities
Perceive Contamination: Thi ability allows the Spectre to see the black light which is the evidence of Oblivion m living - and rhu, dymg - creatures. By using this ,hilicy, the Spccm: will be able tu perceive mortab in whom Oblivion is strong by rhc black light escaping from them, even 1f she cannot accually sec the mortal in quescion through the Shroud
The pectre make, a Sr.me Mental Challenge to sec if she notices any black light aura, which may exist m her locale. If ,he succee,3-, she can a,k one other character how many Health/Corpus lc\'eb he currently h,1s.
Sense the Shadow: With little effort, a Spectre can look at a wraith and sec the Shadow lurlong w1thm. To act1v,11e $.:n...., the '>had"w, the S(X.>ctrc must entcr a Meneal Challenge. Ifouccessful, the Spectre gets the opportunity to look at the wraith's Shadow sheet for one mmute
Basic
Shadowspeech: This ,irt allows a characrcr to speak directly to a wraith's Shadow, even when 1t 1s not Jommarmg the wraith. If the Spectre sodc.-.1res, he can  even ju<lge the wraith's Nature by cxammmg the <lark reflection m chc Shadow as the Shadnwspeaks. The Shadow speaks w11h the wraith\ voice, who C(ln attempt 10 resist the process.
To ,uccessfully speak with the target's Shadow, the Specrr<c must succeed in an Extended Social Challenge. The difficulty is thar of the opponent's Willpower. Each success allows the character to ask rhc Shadow one question or tell it one sentence. Olw1ou ly, 1c is the player who responds, not the Shadow sheet. Suggesttons or com­ ments ma<le by the Spectre should he wricrcn down on the Shadow sheet, however. This arr C05t5 one Ang,t
Transfer Angst: By exerting lllS will, the character can transfer his own Angi;t ro a vis1hle \\'ra1ch's Shadow. The wr.uth must be within lme of s1ghc for chis transfer m rnke place.
If1n Extended Phy ical Challenge a1;amst the target,uccee<l,, then rhe (;;pecrrc may tranofer as many points of her own Angst ro the wraith's Shadow as successes gamed This arrcosh one An t ontopoftheAngst dr.uned for the transfer.
intermediate
Awaken Latent Thorns: By psychically watering the ashen soilof a Shadow's mind, the Spectre c:in cncnura e new Thoms to grow with which to bedc\'il thc wraith's Psyche.
The player must ,ucceed m an Ex11:n<lcd Social Challenge with each ,ui:cc,s allo"·ing the target Shadow tll  manifo,t a previously lattnt Thom. AShadow may he considered to have a numbt-r of latent Thom levels equal to its number of of its pcnnancnr Angst Traics. It co,ts the Specrre cwo Angst rouse this arr
Oblivion	-=	-
Advanced
Call the Shadow: By means of this much-respected arr, the Spectre can drag a wraith's Shadow to che surface, allowing it to attempt a premature Cathams and cake control. When this art is used successfully, the Sha<low immediately takes con• trol, spendmg five Angst Traits co do so. If the Shadow has fewer chan five Angst Traits, then it spend.; whacever it has before taking command.

Witha Physical Challenge against her target and the expenditure of three Angst points, a Spectre can successfully call forth an opponent's Shadow.
rceny
With this Dark Arcanos, Spectres can stave off their rapid demise. Larceny allows a Spectre to restore his Corpus, and thus slow his descent into the Void. It 1s a dangerous Arcanos, strengthening every Spectre's own worst enemy- thePsyche
when used. Larcenyalsoconveys a greater understanding of the nature ofOblivion. In essence, it allows Spectres to manipulate raw entropy, using its effects to steal strength from others and infecr rhem with Oblivion in the process.
innate A ilities
Weigh Oblivion: With this art a Spectre can determine how strong Oblivion is in a wraith or another Spectre. To use this art, the Spectre must make a Mental Ch:11- lengeagainst histarget. Asuccessful challenge indicates that theSpectre now knows one of the target's Passions or Dark Passions, which the target must relay truthfully.
Basic
Infection: By touching another Spectre or wraith, the character may steal the target's Corpus. This art functions in the same way as the Usury arr Transfer, and requires a Dark Arcanos card.
Savor Agony: This art allows the character to draw Angst from the pain she inflicts on others, mortal or supernatural.
Whenever the character successfully mfl1ccs aggravated damage upon another character, she may acrempt to make a Physical Challenge against her target.Success allows the character co gain one point of Angst per level of aggravated damage she causes. This art costs no Angst unless the Spectre loses the challenge. In that case, the Spectre loses one point of Angst.
intermediate
Withstand Oblivion: This Dark Arcano allows Spectres to heal aggravared damage, which can be healed in no other way.Thcsarc isdangerous in that itstrength­ eru the character's Psyche every time it is used, and so is employed only m dire need by all but the mosc insane of Spectres.
To use Withstand Oblivion, the Spectre enters an Extended Static Physical Challenge. Each successful challenge allows the Spectre ro heal a level of aggravated damage. This art costs two Angst and addmonally gives the character's Psyche a point ofTemporary Composure.
Cnapter Nine:Otners
Advanced
Defy Oblivion: When1.'11lplo)1.-<l,uccc:..,fullr,chisart allow-.a d1araccer cocr.ull'fer the efft:c.1,,.f Oblivion,,ncoimod1a character c,rcn.-aturc. Br Dcfy111gOh!tv1on, Spcc1r1.-s Jcny their,,wn nature, anJ thussrrcngthcn 1herr P,yche. Like the prcviolh l.:vcl ,if Jhis Arca.nos, L fy Obliv1011 i, only used in timesof dire nt·1..J hy the maj1>ri1y ,,f Spe.:tres
lmmedtately upon caking any aggr.i\·,1red darn.1gc, a Specrre with Defy Ohli\'lon can makea Simple Test. If the test is,ucccs,ful, rhe SJ:ll.>ctrc may att1."lllpt to transfer the de;trucc1ve cffoc.t, from hin1,5eff to anotlll'r charact1.•r or crt.'3turc in line of sight. If rhe Spectre succceth ma Physical Challenge agamsr the r.trgct, the target l,,ses Corpu, (,,r Health Levd, if not a wmtth or Spccrre) L-qual ro the number of levd• ,f ag1,.'l'a\':lt1.xl damage originally taken. Th,, an co.ts twx, p,.,mc;o( Ang-,t and one BemgTrait to aCII• v:ite, anJ cams the S['1.>crrc\ Psyche two p,.>inr:; ofTem!)<1rary Composure.
Snade powers
h,1Jc, have cerram ahilitie,, callcJ ShaJc Powers, which they and no other caste possess.

Talons:The Shadecand,, ag)!Tllvated d:una c with itscl.1w,.
Tempest Wrack: At the cost of rhrcc point of Ang,t, the Shade can 111fect the Tempest around her with her own
ii mner turmoil. Tim results 111 the  Tcmpesl hccommg wrncked
by ,corms, create, whirlpools where thcrs• were once placid By• way,,etc.. Wr:urhs caught nearhy mustsucceed ma Stacie Men·
cal Challenge or find thcm,dvcs to hecompletely lo,c.
Siphon Emotion: The Shade can direedyattack the Passinm nf an opponcnc,
,md convcrc dra111cd Pa1hos po111ts 111ro Angst. Thl• 'ihade must successfully win 111 a  Physical Ch,1llcngc against its opponent m comhat, md then overcome the target in a 5ocial Challenge. One point  drained per arcad;,
Bind: In order to u,e chis Shade power, the Shade musr fiN ,ucce,;,fully ,,in in a Physical Challenge with her target. In the next tum, the Shade's own form twist:5 to envelop her victim complccdy, anJ unless the Shade b Jcsm,ycd, any wraith imprisoned thus cannm he freed. The encapsulatl.-d wraith is usually carried <.>ff into the Tempc t to an uncertain doom. Us,:of this p,.1wcr coses thrce Ang,r point>.Some 5haJes use this power to conceal other Sh,1Jes w1th1n themsel\'es, hur,ting open to release their fellows at an appropriate moment. Wraiths 1hu,imprisoned cannol tKt.
Ectoplasmic TentaclCJi: Enduwt-..1 with extra limbs of a sort, the 5haJc- con arrack cw1ct I cum. Spectres with Ecwpbsm,c Tenrncle, rarely me wcap,,ns
Spectral Scream: The Shade can "ream mcn the Tempest, 1herehr summnn• mg one to five moreShades. Use of chis l"'wercost,, rhree Angst points, regardless of the numhcr of Shade, summoned.
Tne psycne
Just asa wrairh ha  lllSShadow, a Spectre ha her Psyche. P yche arebuih in un identical fa,hion to Shadow,, sub,rirutin)! Pai,-'lt,n, for Dark Passions, FronJ,, fur Thorru., anJ Composure for Ang,t. Orhcrwbe, they arc 1dc!nticnl.
o livion
■
As most Spectres will be Narrator characters, there will be very little call for Psycheguidmg in gamesof Oblivion. Below are the basic guidelines for Psyche Traits.
psyche Archefypes
A Spectre's Psyche is a somewhat idealized self. With that m mind, 1r takes on an idealized Archetype. Below are some samples.
Agent: Always looking out for your best interests, seeking to find something constructive anJ positive for you to Jo, this Psyche wants co manage you, guide you and generally help you better yourself.
Comrade: This Psyche is the shoulder to cry on, the friendly smile on a bad day, always ready to lend a hand or helpyou through a bad patch. Like any old friend, the Comrade knows you intimately, and accepts the bad along with the good.
Confessor: Stem but kindly, this Psyche's gruff exterior hides a fount of love and compassion. Although affronted by the sins it is witness to, the Confessor would nver think of revealing them co others.
Counselor: The Conselor is the person you can tell anyrhing, that part of you prepared to sit and listen co another person's problems without judging them or be­ rating them.The roleof the Counselor isto help the character realize where her own problems are, and assist with setting strategies to deal with them.

Nurturer: This Psyche is maternal, supportive and caring. It is concerned about the kind of people the host hangs around with, and considers them a bad influence. Although the Nurturer may scold, it never loses its temper.
Saint: Few Spectres are strong enough to stand up co this Psyche. Proud, commanding and authorirarive, the Saint stands out as an incorruptible beacon of purity in the host's mind. The Saint knows evil exists, bur has no time for it.
Savior: This Psyche L the way and the light, the road to salvation. Constantly preaching to the host, the Savior wants the character to listen only to it. No other can lead the host to redemption except the Savior. The Savior is self-sacrificing, prepared to suffer any harm should that m some way advance the redemption of the Spectre.
Composure
The Psyche is powered by a Trait called Composure. Composure represents the degree of serenity and peace the Psyche possesses. There are rwo kinds of Compo­ sure, Composure Traits and Temporary Composure pomts. Ir 1s from the latter that Composure points are spent, powering Fronds. Composure Traits represent the de­ gree of control the Psyche has over a character. The Psyche always begins with one Permanent Composure Trait.
Temporary Composure points begin at a rating equal to the Psyche's number of Permanent Composure Traits, but fluctuate thereafter. Temporary Composure points can and often do exceed the number of Composure Traits. Composure can be in­ creased by the use of certain Fronds. The Dark Arcanos Larceny is another sour e of Composure, and it can also be increaseJ by fulfilling Passions.
IfTemporary Composure ever reaches 10, the Psyche can trade all 10 points for one point of Permanent Composure, bringing the character that much closer to re­ demption.
Cnapter Nine:Otners
Catharsis
Just a, Shadows can uke over wraith characrers,  o too can the Psyche ancmrt to take control of the Spectre character. If the Psyche ever reaches 10 Temporary Composure Traits, it can etcher trade them in for a Permanent Composure Trait or spend five and undergo Cathar:;is. In Spectre Cathar:;is, the Psyche rakes over for one scene or half an hour, whichever end sooner
fronds
A  Psyche's Fronds are the equivalent ()f the Shadow's Thoms. These unique
g1fr.s are employed by the Psycheguide 10 harry the character.
level One
Wraith Prestige (variable): The Psyche is known and respected amongcertain wra1 , and might be aided by them in nmes of need. Consider each level mve,ted in Wraith Pre ttge ro represent how famous the Spectre• Psyche is among Taiths.
Memories of Life: What the Spectre has forgotten about his former exist­ ence (as wraith or mortal) the Psyche remembers. The Psyche can offer the Spectre any mformauon, Trait or knowledge from that life free of charge. A Spectre who accept:. such a,d, however 1s exposed to images of that former, more worthy exist­ ence, and mw,t make a Simple Test. If che character loses the teoc, che Spectre lo es one point of Angsc.

Mirror: Usually po=d by the Psyches ofNephwracks or Shades, thisFrond reveals co che Spectre, in every flat surface chey can ee, an image of what they have become or what they might have been.Such a revelatton ts homble for many Spec­ tres, and chose who are affected by Mirror must make a Static Mental Challenge. This art cosc:; one  point of Com urc.
Pure Relic (variable): When the Psyche is dommanc, it manifest. a rdic which appears at no other ttme. Such a relic can be a weapon.
level Two
Psyche TraiL : The Psyche may add one Trait or Ability to the character• Actribuces or Abilities for one action provided that the host agreesevery time. Every ttme the host draws upon this extra Ability or Trait, the Psyche gams a Temporary Composure point.
level Three
Guilt: The Psyche has the power to make the Spectre feel great guile about a recent actton. Ircostsone point of Temporary Composure co use th,, Frond.The affected Specue must makean Extended Staric Mcneal Challeni:e, witheach I  and/or tie (a tie endmg the challenge immediately) co,,ting the Spectre one Angst point.
Indulgence: This Frond allows the Psyche and rhcSpectre to enter mto a pact.A Spectre can purchase the right to be unhindered by its Psyche in some 1mminenr acuon by spendm a number of Angst potnts. For every pomt !-0 spent, a Static Mental Chal­ lenge b made by the ho.t, and eachsucce,..,grants the P,ycheone Temporary Composure
oolivion	■
point. Once the Psyche ha:. agn..-e..l to uch a bargain, however, it may not renege, and cannot interfere or berate the Spectre for the agreed-upon duration.
level four
Freudian Slip: By spending a temporary Composure point, the Psyche may cause the hOl>t to make an involuntary action or blurt out an embarrassing phrase or secret. The character can only re,isr thts through makmg a Stattc Sucia1Challenge.
Crossover ules
ven more so than ocher Mind's Eye Theatre games, Oblivion 1s a game that can be played in tandem with Masquerade and Apocalypse. The following crossover rules have been adapted from the crossover rules included m Wraith: The Oblivion 2nd Edition, with some modifications for greater playability
,111 ma live-action M!Ctmg. As wirhany Mind's Eye Theatresupple­ ment, this crossover section should be used as a guideline, not holy scripture. Storyrellers should always feel free to modify
rules to make chem work better for their particular group.
Prior experience shows rhat any time you have a significant number of wraiths m with ocher supernatural or mortal characters, it is a good idea ro bend the rules a little in the interest of player interaction. Having a particularly powerful Haunr in which wraith characters with Embody may fully manifest for litrle or no Pathos cost isa good way to increase interaction, though you may find that che focus of the game shife:; to that ,ine location, due to the fact that it's the only place mOl>t of the other characters can interact with wraiths. An even better idea is to make sure that every

wraith has a few of the other types of characters as Fetters they are attuned to. This
encourages wraiths to become involveJ with affairs in the Skinlands without r<'­ srricring them ro a given place, or completely removing the sense of isolation.
Crossoverswit Masquerade
Giovanni
These necromancers of Italian descent are among the greatest enemie the Re5t­ less have m the world of the Quick. While some among their number are scholars who wish only to i;tudy and comprehend death, the Giovanni are for the most part a collecuon of utterly nithl and power-hungry individuals, who seek nothing more than Jommance over the worlds of both the livrng and the dead. Tc) that end, rhey havegained power nver many of the financial centers of the Quick, and control much of the commerce in the living world. But mere temporal power is seen as onlya means to an end by these vampires. Their study of Necromancy has caught chemp greatdeal about how to summon anJ control wraiths.
Summon Spirit: As written in Laws of the Night, but 1( the "person or obJect in a room rhat had some connection ro the spirit m its life" is a Fetter, theNccromancer begins the Social Challenge one hid up, due to the particularly strong connection.
Cl1apter Nine:Otl1ers
Tremere
The other magic-using \;1mp1re., the Tremereconcentrate rnrnarilyon hlooJ mag• ics. If this wereall, they would heoflirtle c,incem to wraith,. However, one of their more obscure paths of knowleJgc 1s known a Spirit Thaumaturgy, and thmu h this they seek to control the soul of the Re tles:, m much the same way that the Giovanni do.
Disciplines
Auspex: Vampires' Heightened Sc, cscannoc penetrate the ShrnuJ, and rhusc.tn· nor see wraiths whoare not Embodied. lowe\'er, if a vampire has rell"<lO to believe that a wraith in11 panicular.art-a(1f the wraith ha:,Just useJ lln Arcano, to aff -ct the phy,i• cal world), ,he may u:.c Aura Percepnon w discern ,hiftmg shadows that indicate the wr.uth's presence Telepathy may be useJ to communicate with the Restle,-,.
Dominate and Presence: A vampire\ Dominate or Pre:;ence D1'iC1pline cannm he used to effect a wraith who in the Sha,fowlands. If the wf3Jth is Embodied or 1Nng Puppecry, he is affected nonnally by Dominate and Pr =nce Oisc1pline,. Any \'3mp1re arcempcing co use Pos:,e;.,ion ,,n someone that a wraith 1s using Puppetry on will have to make a Mental Challenge ,1g:uru,t the wraith currencly ro= ing thebody.
Obfuscate: While Lifl!l>1gh1 allows wraiths to perceive the
vampires are not alive, and therefore wr.uths may not p;:rce1ve theirauras. However, if a wraith has good n.-ason to helie\"e that a vampire isin a given area (such mm·emcnc), he may make a Mental Test m detect the vampire usingSharpened Sen .
Protean: Any vampire using Protean to produce Wolf's Claws can inflict aggra• vated damage on Embodied wraiths.
Crossovers with Apocalypse
First o( all, an tmporrnnt d1mncrion must re made. In most ca,c,, the '\p1rirs"
referred to in Garou Gifts ,m nature spirits and ocher spirits of Gata, not rhcsouls of the Restless DcaJ As a rc,ulc, wraiths may not be hound mro G:irou fetishes, etc,

The following Gifts will aid Garou in their interaction, with wraiths. U,c as<leM:nhcd m Apocalypse uni= otherwise ind1c:1te<l
Spirit Ward: This Gift worb 0n wratths a, well ,h spim,.
Sense Wyrm: The 0.1rou may make a Static Mental Test 1f rhere is a wrauh m the room to detect his rre,cnce. Nme that thtS Gift cannot mJ1catc locanon, onh  that there 1s a wraith pre,em.
Oolivion
Sense the Unnatural: Sense rhe Unnatural works on wra1rhs as well as spirits.
Name the Spirit: This Gift will indicate relatively how powerful a wraith or spirit 1s (weak, moderate, mighty), as well as indicating 1f it is a wraith or a spirit.
Spirit Speech: Allows a Garou to communicate wirh wrniths.
Exorcism: This allows a Garou co force a wraith to give up control 1f they are using Puppetry or Inhabit on someone or something.
Pulse of the Invisible: A similar Gift, called Drumbeat of the Shadow, is uti• lized by the werewolves of the Uktena and Silent Strider tribes in dealing with the Underworld (known to chem as the Dark Umbra). Substitute the ratingof the Shroud ma given area for the Gauntlet in the Gift's description.
Spirit Drain: An Uktena variation of chisGift allows a Garou todrainawraith's Pathos and convert i.t into Willpower.
Scent of the True Form: A successful Mental Test using d1is Gift will indicate if a target is a wraith.
Attunement: This Gift may be used to identify rhe location of the most power­ ful Haunt(s) in a city.
Howl of the Banshee: Wraiths with Intermediate level Keening may teach this Gift to Fianna werewolves.
Cybersenses: A successful Mental Tesc using this Gift can indicate the pres­ ence of a wraith using the Inhabit art Ride the Electron Highway.
Mindblock: Use of this Gift blocb a wraith from using Puppetry, Keening or any other Arcanos affecting the Garou's mind.
Sense Magic:This Gift will indicate if Arcanoi are being used in the Skmlands.
Summon the Restless Shade: If the werewolf using this Gift possesses one of the wraith's Fetters, the wraith is summoned to chat Fetter. This may not be resisted.
Rite of Cleansing: This nre may be used ro drive a wraith using lnhab1r out of an object or away from an area of the Skinlands, hut it may not be used as a WarJ. SpiritFriend, Command Spirit and Riteof Binding all have no effecton wraiths.
\,
.....	Cl.>	.=...
Q.>	.......
·.=2...	...=.......
Q.>
1==
ca	.Q..) ..
c:=i:... -.=_,,
-.=_,,	=n:s
=Q.>
-==
..:.:::.	=Cl.>
3:
;5"'
Br"
8.
---,
e!.
vf
!!!....
vf
..E
001_00 0
loo oo&'!.o
·..r_a
Dark passions
INDEX
A
Physical 86
Negattve 87
Social 87
Neganve 89
Attunement 97
B
Backgrounds 134
Barghescs 50
Basic Abiliues l60 Being 238
Bidding Traits 85
Byways 30, 33
C
Cast 13, 199
Catharsis 171
Spectral 245
Challenges 144
Additional Systems 154
Adjudication 146
Complications 146
Extended 99
Orderof 153
Static 148
Character Creation 61
Advanced 73
Appearance 72
Chart 63
Concept 63
Equipment 73
Example of 73

Inspiration 62 Spark of Death 72
Character Sheet 249
Troubleshooting 189, 207
Shadow 250
Chronicle 18, 186
Charccer Advancement 192 Sening theStage 186
Mood 186
Setting 186. 192
Theme 186
Circles 45
Citadels 36
Combat 154
Ranged 156
Composure 244
Conduit 215
Corpus 149
Spectre 239 Cover l59 Crossover Rules 246
Apocalypse 247
Gifts 247
Storytelling Hints 248
Masquerade 246
Disciplines 247
Giovanni 246
Srorycelling Hints 247
Trcmere 247
D
Damage 38
Aggravated 151
Dark Arcano, 239
Contaminate 240 Awaken Latent Thoms 241
Call the Shadow 242 Perceive Contamination 241
Sense the Shadow 241 Shadowspeech 241 Transfer An t 241
Larceny 242
Defy Oblivion 243
Infection 242
Savor Agony 242
Weigh Oblivion 242
Wirhstand Oblivion 242
Shroud-Rending 239
Echoes 240
Fleecing Glimpses 240 Hold Back the Curtain 239
Threshold 240 Transparent Memories 240
Virtualiry 240
Dark Kingdoms 20, 35
Dark Passions 69, 170, 239
Death 80
Deathlords 40
Deachmacks 44
Deachsense 238
Deachsight 160, 238
Demeanor 63, 81
Dictum Morruum 51
Dimmed Senses 238
Distance 238
Domains 36
Domems 39
Drones 39
E
Eidolon 136
Enfancs 39
Excessive Sneakiness 155 Experience
Gaining 164
Trait Coses 165
F
Factions 46
Heretics 47
Hierarchy 48
Renegades 46
Fair Escape 153
Far Shores 20, 34
Ferrymen 57
Fetters 20, 38, 68, 140
Fog, che 234
Fronds 245
Freudian Slip 246
Guile 245
Indulgence 245 Memories of Life 245 Mirror 245
Psyche Traits 245
Pure Relic 245
Wraith Prestige 245
G
Gaunts 40
Geography 19, 29
Guilds, the 52, 67
Alchemists 109
and Titles 53
Artificers 111
Breaking of 54
Chanteurs 116
Harbingers 100
Haunters 127
Lesser 56
Masquers 122
Mnemoi 120
Monitors 118
Oracles 107
Pardoners 102 Proctors I05 Puppeteers 13l Sandmen 129
Sol,cicors 113
Spooks 125
Usurers 133
Warof 53
H
Harrowings 20, 176
Destruction 178
Examples 178
l--lelpful Hinrs 182
Mechanics 177 Quick and Dirty 181
Haunts 31
Healing 151
Health 72, 149
Hive-Mind 238
Humans 223
Character Creation 223
Chart 224
I
Influence 223
Bureaucracy 226
Church 227
Finance 227
Health 228
HigliSociety 228
lndusrry 229
Legal 229
Media 230
Occult 230
Police 231
Politics 231
Street 232
Time LLmitson 226 Transportation 232
Underworld 233
University 233
Initial Bid 144
K
K.I.S.S. 85
L
Labyrinth 30, 33
Laying Down the Law 208 Legions 49
Ranks 50
Anacreon 50
Centurion 50
Legionnaire 50 Marshal SO Overlord SO Regent 50
RollCall 50
Lemures 39
Lexicon 21
Life 79
Lifesighc 160
Live-Action 12
M
Maelstroms 33, l63
Manacles 44
Masks 44, 73
Memoriam 136
Meraphysics 37
Mob Scene 152
N
Narrators 14
Role 14
Narure 63, 81 Narure & Demeanor
Chart 64
Necropolis 35
Nihils 20, 33, 162
Numina 234
Troubleshooting 235
0
Oblivion 27
Oboli 28, 43
Off-Line Gaming 198
Overbidding 147
p
Passions 38, 67, 138
Pathos 70, 139
Props 18, 194
Punishment 51
R
Rapacity 238
Read This! 16
Reapers 40
Reference co Developer's
Favorite Pub 46
Regret 81
Relics 29, 41
Restless 36
Risen 211
Aggravated Damage 219 and the Shroud 220 Becoming Risen 221
Chara<:ter Creation 21I, 221 Combat 217

Conduits 215
Damage 218 Disciplines Z15 Healing 220
Health 217
Slumber 220
Rock-Paper-Scissors 146
Roleplaying 13
Rules 14, 143 Rules, Bas,c l6
s
Setting 27
Shade Powers 243
Bind 243
Ectoplasm,c Tentacles 243
Siphon Emotion 243
Spectral Scream 243
Talons 243
Tempest Wrack 243 Shadow Bids l 72 Shadow, The 20
Creation 68 Shadowguiding l67
Do's and Don'ts 168 Mechanics 167
Shadowlands 19, 29, 30 Shadows l67
Characteristics 173
Sharpened Senses 160
Shroud, the 20, 31, 160
Simple Tests 149
Skinlands 20, 30, 160
Society 38, 44
Soulforged Goods 42
Soulforging 42
Souls 28, 41
Trade in, 28
Soulsreel 42
Spectre Traits 238
Spectres 58, 235
Character Creation 236
Doppelgangers 59, 236
Malfeans 59, 237
Monw,ghcs 237
Nephwracks 59, 237
Shades 59, 237
Smplings 236 Statesof Being l50 Starus 38, 70, 136
Chart 137
Guild 137
Storyteller 14
Role 15 Storytelling l l. 185
Character Creation 202 Creating the Story 196 How co Hose a Game 201 Player Questions 205
Pre-Game Tasks 202 Thralls and Ashtrays 19 l
Working With Narrators 206 Scygia 20, 32
Stygian steel 42 Substantialiry and Going
incorporeal 150
Surprise 155
T
Tapdancing 204
Tempest 20, 30, 32, 161 Playing in the 163 Travel Through the l62
Testi.ng l45 Thorns 69, 175
Aura of Corruption 176 Bad Luck 176
Devil's Dare 176
Freudian Slip 176
Shadow Life 176 Shadow Traits l 76 Specue Presnge 175
Tainted Relic 175 Trick of the Light 176
Thralls 39
Time 143
Time and Distance 162 Traits 79, 144
Negative 71, 146
Chart 71
Underworld 19, 27
V
Void, the 30
w
Walking Through Walls 31, 16l
Weapons 43, 155
Bidding With 156
Chart 157
Willpower 70, 141, 152 Winners and Losers I5 World of Darkness 18 Wraith: The Obltvion 12
hnJs [!Jl' Tl1l'illn·
January J997·
renfield
J1aJ it
so good
G-IlJS:
1	1 Ri[
The; asquerade
June 1997
kow MANY WJ\,\iJks AflE iN Jkis piCJUflE1
I larJ to tell, isn't it?
You could be looking at just one ghost -
the Puppcleer from Wraith Second Edition. You coulJ be looking at a mortal being Skinridden
- one wraith again. But if her toys aren'l relics, every trinket, pipe and button could be soulforgcd wraiths.
And if those dolls aren't dolls at all... if what you're really looking ar is one Puppeteer and two, or rhrec, or 40 Moliatcd wraiths... this could be one very dangerous page.
These sores of questions
are exactly why you need Gutldbooks. Artificers could tell you whether she's wearing relics or soulforged trinkets. Masquers mighr have warned you about those mnocent-lookingdolls.
And if you read
Sandmen, you mighl decide thar there aren't any wraiths in this picture at all.
f?-
Artificers Nuw Available Masquers Now At'<lilable Sandmen NOOJ Am,lable Haunters S/)rini:1997 Puppeteers Summer 1997 Pardoners
Fall 1997
WW5400 $15 00 _·
5150D  •
9 781565 045019